
# The Grey NATO - 146 - Collection Inspection 9 (Seiko and Halios)
Published on Thu, 03 Jun 2021 06:00:21 -0400



## Synopsis
The hosts discuss some recent watch acquisitions including a Scurfa MS21 diver, an Elliott Brown Holton Nevo dive watch, and a Serica diver with unique features like a semi-integrated mesh bracelet and twin bezel scales. They also talk about a new ceramic-cased Black Bay Tudor watch. For the main topic, Jason shares his vintage Seiko 7002 diver that he found at a thrift store for $40, while James discusses his recent purchase of a Halios Universa field watch with an interesting bracelet and micro-adjust clasp. Final notes cover an article about summiting the world's highest peaks and the new movie "Those Who Wish Me Dead."

## Links
- [episode page](https://thegreynato.substack.com/p/the-grey-nato-146-collection-inspection)
- [episode MP3](https://www.buzzsprout.com/2049759/11310973-the-grey-nato-146-collection-inspection-9-seiko-and-halios.mp3)
- [episode webpage snapshot](episode.html)
- [episode MP3 - local mirror](episode.mp3)

## Transcript    
|*Speaker*||
|----|----|
|Jason Heaton| Hello and welcome to another episode of The Grey Nado, a loose discussion of travel, diving, driving, gear, and most certainly watches. This is episode 146 and we thank you for listening. James, we've got some fun news kicking off this episode, don't we? |
|James Stacey|Yeah, we sure do. You want to start there? Yeah, yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|I think we'll just dive right in because I think it's pretty exciting. |
|James Stacey| Yeah, I agree. As much as I'm sure people want to know about the weather in Toronto and in Minneapolis, it is important that we get to this. This is something that we've been thinking about for a really long time and working on. We wanted a new place for all of the show notes, and we wanted a way for it to be searchable and subscribable and even have comments and the rest of it. So we've moved the entire show notes platform, that's all 146 episodes, to Substack.  So if you go to thegraynado.substack.com or if it's easier notes.thegraynado.com, they'll take you to the same place. Um, we now have an, the entirety of the show, uh, with notes, uh, separated by essentially, uh, what would eventually be like a newsletter that you could receive if you subscribe, or if you just want, you can just go in and peruse. You don't have to, we're not saying you have to subscribe, but if you would like the notes delivered to your inbox, the same day that the new show is kind of delivered to your podcast feed.  then make a Substack account and subscribe. The other plus that I think is kind of cool is we've had a lot of folks ask over the last few years, like, is there a Greynado Reddit? Is there a forum? Is there, you know, a sub-forum of what you seek for the Greynado? And we didn't want to set that up. It feels kind of weird to be the first party also trying to make it, you know, it's like writing your own Wikipedia page or whatever. And so we just kind of left it, but thankfully the entire Substack platform has comments.  And we'll leave those on. So if you want to leave a comment about the show or even ask a question or follow up about something we said, or, you know, let us, let me know what I mispronounced or, or, uh, or kind of got wrong in the, in the moment, uh, then please, by all means, again, make a Substack account, get in there and comment. Jason, I'll be reading those comments. I'm sure we'll be getting a notification of some sort. I'm still learning a bit of this. Um, but yeah, we're really excited. Notes.thegraynado.com or thegraynado.substack.com, whatever works for you.  we're working towards kind of a larger website, a unified space. But for now, this is kind of the spot you can go to SoundCloud. If you don't already have a subscribed, I assume most people prefer to listen to the show just by subscribing via their favorite podcast app. And now if you want the notes, they'll just show up in your inbox, uh, every, uh, every week. Cause we're now on a, this is the start of weekly episodes. So that's, that's kind of a big announcement. It's something Jason and I are super excited about to have done and, and kind of, on the way. You know, down the road, we may turn on the ability to support the show via Substack. We haven't quite decided, you know, what that would look like. But if that's something that you think might be something you're keen on, then maybe let us know in an email or a comment or something like that. And that way we can at least factor in general opinion. Jason, I'm pumped. You know, you've had a really good time with Substack so far for Swim Proof, and it's obviously a great subscribed newsletter. And now I think this is a pretty good solution for the show. |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah, I think it's a, it's a perfect vehicle for delivering notes. I mean, between, between, uh, you know, getting it in your inbox with the notes, uh, as well as the ability to kind of create this community that, that people have been asking for. And that, that I think we would love, um, rather than the slower, slower process of sending and receiving emails from us or doing something on Instagram. I think this is just a win-win for everybody. I'm really excited about it. |
|James Stacey| Yeah, admittedly, I have fallen behind on email. Um, yeah, I think I'm like, well, I don't have to think I'm, I have my page open right now. I have 30 plus emails that we need to get to. So if you're waiting on a reply, my apologies, if it's important or there's, it's time sensitive, please loop back. You won't hurt our feelings or anything. I know that I'm behind on it. It's just been like I've said before, kind of a busy season for those things. So we'll get back on top of it, but yeah, notes.thegrenado.com and, and yeah, I, I totally forgot. I am bad.  every delivery will have an embedded player for that episode. So like Jason said, if you pop this open in your Gmail or whatever, then you'll have the ability to play it right there if that's preferable. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Awesome. So what else is new? What else is new? Summer's here. We had a long weekend. We're just coming out of that. Today feels like a Monday, but it's a Tuesday, which is always a bonus. I don't know. I have to admit something. Last year, given being homebound for pretty much the whole year, We really got into gardening and this, this year we've really taken it up a notch. I mean, I, I'm shocked actually that, that my life has taken a turn in this way because it feels like one of those kind of sedate things you do as you get older. And maybe that is the case with me, but I don't know. I just love it. You know, we, we, we watch shows about gardening. We go to the garden center. We bought, you know, we just, yesterday we went and we just filled up the back of the Land Rover with just tons of plants and came home and um, you know, pulled weeds and moved plants around and that sort of thing. And it's, there's something, you know, it's, it's very light kind of activity and exercise, but it's, there's something really rewarding about, you know, even if you just have a few minutes after work or over lunch or something to kind of go out and pick a little corner of the yard and putts around. And, uh, I don't know, it's, it's like a whole new world has opened up and I'm starting to notice, uh, other people's yards and gardens when I walk by them. And, um, I don't know, we've, we've got a vegetable patch that we put in this year.  I built a very crude, uh, vegetables kind of raised bed box that, uh, that we're using for some tomatoes and kale and beans and peas and peppers. And so we'll, we'll see. Um, so that's, uh, and it was a good weekend for it. We had kind of some cool rainy weather. It wasn't even raining actually threatened to rain all day, but it was, it was quite chilly on Saturday. And, um, I got out and did some putzing on the Land Rover. There was some stuff I wanted to do.  for, for quite a while, which was to, uh, uh, take out the seats and, and strip out some of this really wacky carpeting that the previous owners had laid in it and kind of glued down. So I, I tore all that out and used this, uh, this horrible product called the Gugon, which is, it's a wonderful product, but it's a horrible product. If you know what I mean, then it's a, you know, you feel like you're like Gugon quite a bit, feel like you're shortening your life just by being in its presence. Um, but, uh, I, I, I braved it and I kind of just, doused the whole inside with this stuff and used a paint scraper to kind of get off that gross residue as, as best I could. And it just felt good. You know, it was just kind of a thorough cleaning. And then I laid down some, some new rubber matting that I got and used some, some spray adhesive that the next owner will have to use Google on to get off and got that all sorted. So that, that felt good. And you know, we're, we're, we're planning a bit of a, I hesitate to even mention this cause it might not happen, but we're planning a bit of a Land Rover road trip over to to Michigan, do a little bit of camping, uh, in, I guess, two weeks. And, you know, I, I think I'd mentioned to you that we have a rather sick, very old cat that everything sort of hinges on his, his future as to whether or not we, we make these plans. We might not be going after all, we might try something a little more close to home, but, um, if this trip happens, I think it could be a lot of fun. So I'll, I'll leave it there. And, and, you know, if, if it does happen, it'll be a lot to talk about. But, uh, anyway, that's, uh, That's what's new here. I mean, it's, it's kind of the summer kickoff. I mean, I'm looking outside right now and it's blue sky and warm. It's supposed to get hot this week. Uh, yeah. I kind of welcome it. It's great. |
|James Stacey|It's good to see. Yeah. Yeah. It's about the same, about the same here really in many ways. Like we, we've got, we've got a bunch of tomato plants and pepper plants and some other stuff that we had been, um, kind of, uh, growing inside under, I think I spoke about it on a previous one. We have like, it looks like something you'd grow marijuana in. It's probably what it was originally for. Yeah.  But it's this, um, it's, it's about the size of a, of a maybe 30 or 40 gallon aquarium. Obviously it doesn't have glass walls, but just, just in terms of, you know, it's maybe two and a half feet or two feet wide. It's about a foot and a half tall. It's about maybe, yeah, maybe a foot and a half deep. And, um, I don't remember the brand. I'll put it in the show notes if this matters. Final notes. I think you did this as a final note. Oh, okay. Cool. Cool. Cool. Then I'll, I'll dig it up out of, uh, out of Bitly and drop it back in. But it's, yeah, it's this kind of, simple thing for you. It has a watering tray, so you don't have to water each plant individually. And so that's where we started the tomatoes and the peppers and a bunch of other stuff, some of which I killed. But now they're outside, they're in pots outside, and we had to bring them back in on Friday. It was like, It was pretty close to zero. Wow. Like it was definitely under 10 Celsius on Friday. And then there was some snow and some rain, like some sleet sort of slushy snow stuff. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Um, and then, then they all went right back out and they seemed quite happy. So. Oh, cool. Geez. Yeah, no, it's super fun. Um, and, and it's always nice to like, you know, have some bruschetta or something with, or, or, you know, uh, a nice caprese salad with, uh, with some tomatoes that you made yourself. Oh yeah, totally. Geez. Not, not an effective way really from a money standpoint, it's still Considerably cheaper for time and effort to just go buy a tomato, but it is kind of nice to do it, do it yourself and see it come together. And it, and it's a, I think it's a lovely hobby because it is kind of contemplative and patience and the rest of it. So that's a, that's awesome. I hope, uh, I hope you get a strong yield from all that stuff. I'm really excited for the peppers, the hot peppers. It should be really fun. |
|Jason Heaton|The thing is we, you know, we went a little crazy and we also migrated some of the stuff out of the veg bed and put it all over the garden.  So I'm like, we have to remember where stuff is, you know, you got like carrots in one corner and fennel somewhere else and peppers in the middle of the geraniums. And it's like, you know, geez. |
|James Stacey|So that's where you got it. You got to take a decent size, like pretty light tone rock. And then like a, uh, or Sharpie. Yeah, true. And either draw a carrot or write carrot or whatever. That's the only way I would remember. Otherwise you just go, well, that's green thing and that's another green thing. |
|Jason Heaton|That's a good idea. Spray paint rocks. That's how they mark the dive sites in Bonaire. I should spray paint a bunch of rocks white and then just write on them. Yeah, I like that idea. Yeah. Good. That'd work really well. There we go. Final notes for today. Can of spray paint some rocks, garden marks. Some rocks, for sure. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|What else? Yeah. In other news, I finished depth charge.  Uh, I said, I said I would do it slowly and then, but I had some time, uh, just as just, I took some vacation that just ended today. Uh, so I was off from the middle of last week and I blasted through it in an afternoon, the last half and just, dude, I just loved it. Oh, especially the second half. Oh, that's great. It was, um, it was like exciting and the pace was great. So I really, there wasn't a point where I was just like, well, I'll just stop. Yeah. There was no like hard break.  Yeah. Um, and you know, you, it's nice. The chapters aren't really big too. So you feel like you have a physical pace of reading. Right. Right. Um, which, which worked out well, but dude, I loved it. I'm definitely not going to spoil it, but there's a, there's a few things that happen in the sort of third act, uh, that, that I thought were like, Oh, I would not have considered this. This is super cool. Uh, yeah, no, I, I enjoyed it a lot. So, uh, well done on that. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks. Yeah. It's, it's been well received. I've been really pleased with the feedback. And I, again, I just got to put out a thanks to everybody that, uh, supported me with that effort and has also provided a lot of reviews and great, great feedback. So it was, it continues to be a lot of fun. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, for sure. And then the, uh, the other one, and I think you got a copy of this too. The other one that I've just started to dig into and, and Bill, if you're listening, I apologize for being pretty late to, uh, to getting to this is, uh, Bill Yow, who we, you know, a good buddy, um, runs Mark II watches. Uh, he started a zine called Guinea Pig and the first one came out and it, I don't think I've come across something quite like this before.  Yeah. Yeah. It's a, it's a cool project. It's really, uh, yeah, it's really experimental and it feels really good. Um, I'll, I'll drop it in the show notes. I'm not done reading it. So maybe, maybe once I get all the way through it, we can, uh, and Jason, if you do the same, I'd actually just like to have bill on, I think we've, I've been saying that for about two years, I should just send that email. Um, uh, but this is, this is a neat thing from someone with a kind of a very, you know, like mark two has this very defined sort of perspective. And I think this fits in really well. And, It just feels really good. And it's not, it doesn't feel like I'm reading any other sort of magazine. Uh, I I'm impressed. It's a, it's a, it's a nice and cool thing. So Bill, good work on that. And, uh, maybe expect an email, uh, in, in the next little while, but thanks very much for sending it. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, it was, it is a good, uh, it's a good little publication and, um, it has a couple of my old chums from old gear patrol days, uh, John Gaffney contributed as well as Chris Wright who edited depth charge. So, um, yeah, it's a good link up there. Yeah.  Congrats on that bill. Very cool. How about these t-shirts we're wearing? |
|James Stacey|Oh man. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|I mean, yeah. |
|James Stacey|How hard, how hard can I rave about a t-shirt? It's been a little while since we talked about something like a piece of clothing that I really, really, really loved. Yeah. So obviously in the past we we we've covered and I've, I think I own two of every color at this point of the the kill hubris pocket tees, the washed pocket tees. And it's just, it's a great t-shirt. And then, um, I have a new kind of great T-shirt that I'm actually pretty excited about. I've worn it a couple of times. I'm really impressed by it. It's it's called the Avant T and it's from Standard H, which is a podcast and a website. And I've been on their podcast. Jason, have you been on with Wesley? |
|Jason Heaton|I have not. |
|James Stacey|No, we're we're talking about it. Chatting about it. Yeah, he's great. A real car guy, you know, sort of Southern California personality. And he's a really nice guy. I'll drop the podcast, obviously, in the show notes.  But beyond that, like even if I didn't like Wesley, which I do, this t-shirt is just killer. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. And full disclosure, he sent each of us a t-shirt. I'm sure with the hopes that we would talk about it on the show, which we are, but I tell you what, he didn't have any expectations or didn't have any strings attached. And I think, you know, you know us well enough that we don't really talk about stuff we don't like. And we're, we're both just smitten with this t-shirt. I think it's fantastic. He sent me the gray one. Um, And I also am going to order, uh, the other two or two more colors. I'm going to skip the white, um, but I'm going to go for the blue and the green one that you've got. But you know, size wise, you, you mentioned you're a large I'm I'm an XL and it is a definitely a, I guess what you'd call a slim fitting shirt, but it fits really well. I've washed it and dried it and it didn't shrink at all. So, um, if you're, if you're looking for a good pocket tee, like I don't even want to say it's dressier because I think you could wear it for you know, gardening or working on the car if you wanted to, if you didn't want to get a $68 t-shirt all dirty, then skip it. But no, it's, it's, I think it's, it's worth it as far as a good shirt goes. |
|James Stacey|So yeah, the only, the only kind of, the only kind of similarity I can pull is it, it wears a little bit like, um, like tech or, or, um, athleisure. Um, but it's absolute, like if you want, in my mind, it's at least the quality of like a great Lululemon shirt or, or something like where, they clearly have kind of gone overboard on the material and the rest, knowing that people are willing to pay a little bit more for it. |
|Unknown|Yeah. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Um, and I think this wears the same way, but I would say it's a little bit less sporty than something from like a Lululemon and just a little bit more relaxed, like a normal t-shirt, uh, which works for me. Cause I, I wouldn't want something too, too sporty than it feels like, uh, I should be working out rather than sitting or something like that. |
|Unknown|Right, right, right. |
|James Stacey|Um, yeah, yeah. But yeah, good, good stuff there. And yeah, a point of clarity, uh, The one that I have and the one that Jason have, we didn't pay for. Wesley was kind enough to send, but I do like it enough to buy more if that means anything to those of you concerned with such things. |
|Jason Heaton|Let's talk about watches. Yeah, I got some. What have you got? Well, okay, so I got, well, two things. I'll move into risk check with something different and the main topic, but I got two watches over the past two weeks that were surprising and just really rewarding for me.  For what they are. So I, I bought the, the Scarfa MS21, which is Paul Scurfield's. He does a limited edition of his diver one once a year. And, uh, I don't know if every one of them is limited to 100 pieces, but this one definitely is. Uh, I got number 15 and it's, it's his blue dial, blue bezel, uh, diver one, but, but this one's done in titanium. So this is a titanium.  Uh, dive watch with drilled lugs, uh, Ronda Swiss quartz movement. Um, and, and comes on one of our friend, uh, Terry's UTE watch straps. So it comes with a gray NATO fittingly, um, as well as, uh, a beautiful rubber strap. I think if you don't know the Scarfa rubber strap that Terry sells, um, I guess Scarfa sells it through his website as well. Um, there it's fantastic rubber. If you want a good rubber strap, that's, that's a great way to go.  You know, I had a scurf a watch many years ago and loved it. I passed it on to a buddy of mine who does some photography for me, but, uh, um, I was really pleased to get one back in the collection. And, and this, this watch is like, it's less than $400 Swiss quartz movement, sapphire crystal drilled lugs. And to me, you know, titanium, I mean, it's like, and it's really well-made the crown screws down nicely. The bezel action is great. Um, big, bold numerals that, you know, fully hashed bezel.  I don't know. I can't say enough good things about it. I mean, for the price, this is easily a competitor to, if not the better of something from, you know, like a Seiko turtle or something like that. I think it's just fantastic. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. I, I definitely was eyeballing that knowing there was only a hundred and I don't really love trying to do the rush to buy, you know, is it going to work out or not sort of thing. And, and the other side, and, and, you know, as I've mentioned in previous shows, like I am kind of, uh, rotten with dive watches at the moment, uh, personal, personally owned dive watches. So I probably didn't need another one, but I am really glad that you picked one up because that means I could probably check one out at some time. I think it's just a great looking, really straightforward product. Um, and, and obviously we're huge fans of both Paul and his company here. So that's a, that's awesome. Good, good snag on that. |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah. Um, and then the second watch I got was, it was sent to me by, uh, a brand out of, uh, out of England called Elliot Brown. And a lot of people might've heard of this brand and maybe didn't know much about it, which was my, my situation before I got it. But, uh, Elliot Brown, you know, for years I was kind of aware of them in my peripheral vision as kind of this maker of quartz and a few automatic, uh, kind of not really, I wouldn't even have called them enthusiast watches. They almost felt like I don't know. I don't even know what to compare them to, but I just didn't really pay much attention to them. But then lately I've been getting a few people that keep writing me and saying, you've got to try the Elliot Brown Holton, which is the watch that they make for the UK special forces. They're based in pool, which is in Dorset right next door to the SBS. So the special boat service and the SBS approached them about making a watch to give to their, their special forces operators. And the result was this Holton professional that they make. It's a, Again, it's, you know, similar to the Scurfa, it's a quartz dive watch. Um, uh, the, the one that I got, the one that they sent me as a new kind of derivation of it called the Holton Nevo. And Nevo stands for night invisible varnish or Fordness, which is a weird kind of green gray color that was developed between world war one and world war two to paint aircraft. So that would be a little more camouflaged at night. Um, and so the whole watch is this color and then the dial is this kind of greenish gray color.  Um, it's got the most incredible rubber strap. It's almost like to me, I put the watch on and I looked down at my wrist and it feels and looks like a Zinn U1, both the strap and the watch. Cause it's right. It's all matte. It's, it's very, no nonsense, very smooth, very, I don't want to say industrial. It's very technical looking. It's very, um, kind of all business. There's very little text on the dial. Um, The bezel is one of the best I've used. They actually designed it so that this, this knurling sort of hobnailed knurling that they use for the, the grip, which is quite narrow, kind of extends up to the very top and kind of overlaps the top of the timing ring so that you can literally like just set your palm on the top of the watch and like pivot your wrist and it'll spin the bezel. Um, and the crown is at four o'clock and it's this tiny little screw in crown with the same knurling. That's, it's not hard to use, but it's like, it's so small. And at first I was like, why that's a tiny crown.  you know, it's a quartz watch. I mean, you don't use it. So in that way, it's almost like a watch without a crown because it just sort of disappears when you're wearing it. So, um, I'm pretty, pretty pleased with it. It's, it's a great grab and go watch. I mean, I think it's funny, you know, to get both of these watches within two weeks of each other, they kind of both fit the same, the same purpose in my life is just kind of one of these watches that, you know, it's perfect for this time of year when you're, you know, you're going from the bike to the garden to, you know, Wrenching on the car and hiking and that sort of stuff. And, uh, don't even have to think about it. And, and they're just always running cause they're, they're quartz. So they're just sitting on the dresser kind of ready to go. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. And what, what are we looking at in terms of price on this? Uh, good question. Similar range as the, as the, uh, it's more expensive than the Skirfa. Okay. Here I go. Oh, I got it here. It's 450 pounds. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. So it's, uh, yeah, it's bad at all though. It looks really good. Between five and $600. It's, uh, I would say it's a lot of thought went into this and it comes what I appreciated too. One of the small things was it comes in, in kind of a well-formed cardboard box. And then inside is this like zippered molded padded thing, kind of like those Oakley. Oh yeah. It's a little bit bigger than that. It's a little bigger than that, but because it has a little slot for another strap and a tool, but the strap is held on with a screw bars that have a Torx or star shaped head.  Um, and it's only threaded on the, on the near side. So you put the, you pass this, the screw bar through the top hole, and then there's not a hole drilled through on the other lug. And it just sort of seats in that lug. And then the threads are on the lug that you threaded it through. Um, and it tights down really firmly. A lot of thought went into it. |
|James Stacey|What's the, what's the loom like? |
|Jason Heaton|Loom is great. Fully loomed bezel. So all the hash marks and all the numerals are loomed. Um, big sword hands. Uh, yeah, it's, uh, it's a cool watch. I mean, I think, yeah.  I have a thing about, I don't know, call it a bias or prejudice or snobbishness from, from years of being in this crazy business where, you know, you, these brands kind of wash over you after a while. It's like, what, you know, Elliot Brown's like slightly anonymous sounding kind of two guys names, you know, whatever. But, um, so I didn't pay much attention to them, but I was like, that's a really good watch. It's, it's really a fantastic watch. I think it easily is worth what they're asking. You know, the, the tie with the SBS obviously has a little bit of, cachet to it, whether or not that's important to you or not, but it's, uh, it's definitely proof that somebody, somebody is using it a lot harder than I am. Um, so. |
|James Stacey|Well, I mean the other, the other nice thing is I would say kudos to the folks at Elliot Brown for really fighting the, the normal, the normal thing of putting, putting the, you know, SBS logo or some direct reference to military use on the dial. This is, it just looks like a, it looks a little bit like a, like in the same way that you've said about the CWC stuff is it has that like modern issued sort of vibe where it's not just a, I'm sure there's lots of marketing that goes into being part of the watches that the SBS would have, but it's not just on the dial for all of us non SBS operators to flex in a manner that we really shouldn't be. You know, that was, that was always one of those things that Doug, that got at me a little bit about like, if you bought a really nice basic Luminox, it just had like a normal dial. But if you bought one of their fancier ones, you had to have this really complicated dial with a military crest on it. Then I felt like, well, what if I was on a plane and like the guy next to me actually was in that outfit. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|He wants to fist bump with you and you're like, well, no, I'm a, I'm a podcaster. I write about watches. Yeah. Goodness sakes. |
|James Stacey| So that always kind of sits with me, but I think that's a good looking watch and yeah, a nice thing. And the price seems really fair for what it is. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|That's in there in that like Seiko. Totally. |
|Jason Heaton|Totally. I'm definitely on a theme these days because it's all about grab and go quartz, tough watches. I mean, even when we get into our main topic today, you'll see where I'm headed. Yeah. So what about you? What watches are you keen on these days? |
|James Stacey|Yeah. I got in a pair of watches.  Same watch, but different one with a black dial, one with sort of a white silver dial. And they're the new Serica diver. Oh yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|The 5303. Those look amazing. |
|James Stacey|Man, this watch is really good in person. Huh? Huh. Like I was, I was very impressed with their previous offering, but this is, this is a whole step up, easily a whole step up. So the, the one I have in my hand now, they're 1200 bucks. So that is a big step up in price as well, but not like not massive. Yeah.  And they're not punching below their weight, below that price point in any way. This does not look like other watches, which I think is really special. It has what I would call a semi-integrated Milanese mesh bracelet with internal... So the tail on the bracelet goes under the other side of it. Oh, okay. So you end up with this fully smooth profile, almost like you'd see on a 60s dress watch. |
|Unknown|Sure, yeah. |
|James Stacey| But it's way finer than I was expecting. The tolerances of the lugs are really nice. And then if you imagine the lug element, people should... If you're listening, just swing by the show notes or hit serca-watches.com. But the lug element is kind of like a miniature version of that lug element from the Tudor P01. Oh, sure. Yeah, right, right. So you have a hard end link and then a pivot, and then it mounts in. So there's a link between the end link and the start of the mesh. Yeah, yeah. And it looks kind of chunky and purposeful, but it's also like super comfortable. And then on top of that, it's only 39 millimeters. Oh, nice. So you can have all this extra bulk from the... And you can still fit a normal strap. It's not like the P01 specifically. You can pop this off and put a normal strap on, but it comes with this steel bracelet.  which tapers from 20 to 16 millimeters with integrated end links. And it's just not a common thing that you're going to see very often. And then I can go further. So it uses a Swiss caliber Newton automatic. That's a movement I don't know that much about. Wait for my hands on, I'll dig deeper into it. And then maybe my favorite part is they have an engraved polished ceramic rotating bezel that's twin scale. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, that is really nice. |
|James Stacey| There's a little tiny, maybe it's a split 70-30 or 60-40 in terms of radius depth. But the inner ring of the bezel is a 12-hour bezel. And then the outer ring is a standard dive timer. So smart. Jeez. And then the functionality is great. It has a lume pip. The visibility is awesome. It's a no-date. And yeah, it comes in black or white. And the black dial has white hands, and the white dial has black hands.  And it's a, it's a solid case back. I would even say there's almost room for an engraving. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Uh, which is, which is nice. And I I'm, I'm absolutely impressed for $1,200. They've done a beautiful job with this. |
|Jason Heaton|And look at those lugs. I mean, from, from the photos, it's got those sort of twisted liar shaped lugs, almost, you know, Seamaster like, yeah. And then it says on their website that you can choose left or right-handed crown position. |
|James Stacey| Oh, I didn't, I didn't catch that. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Which is really unique. That is, that is awesome. Crown at nine or crown at three. Wouldn't that be fun? I mean, if you, if you like that, I mean, what, I mean, who's offering that? Nobody offers that unless it's a very specific model, but like to actually offer that as a dropdown on the website for, you know, $1,200. I mean, okay. I mean, look at these watches. Now we've got Scarfa, Elliott Brown, and this, you know, all three of them would total $2,000. You know what I mean? This is, this, these are great.  This is a great summer kickoff episode here. We're already starting on. |
|James Stacey|So 39 millimeters. It's only 12.2 millimeters thick, which is awesome. Um, the bezel, uh, entirely nests the, uh, crystal. So they're, they're on an equal plane. So you don't have any of that, the, the kind of faux vintage added thickness from the crystal. Uh, lug to lug is 46.5 and it's a 20 millimeter lug.  a loom so far is pretty impressive. I've been wearing I've been wearing one around for most of today. And in a couple days previously, these are, these are still in a prototype phase of some sort. So I didn't, you know, take it outside. And I, this is a small company. And I always try and respect the fact that I don't want to return the watch with any scratches on it, because it probably has to go directly to the next person who's reviewing it.  Yeah. Um, so I, I am, I am definitely being careful with them, but I'm just very impressed. It's a, it's a unidirectional bezel, plenty of loom, a lot of style. Uh, I think this is a really solid follow-up from their previous stuff. Same, same sort of like understanding of what they want to do. But like, if you consider them a micro brand, then I would see this in the same vein as a, like in, in, in a Manta kind of range, right. Where, you know, you go, let's say you go with a Hallios or, or a Scurfa or a Raven, The difference is they just, it's not that there's a quality in the way that let's say the case is made. Everything just goes up a level in complexity. |
|Jason Heaton|Sure. Yeah. Like those lugs or the bracelet or. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Or the ability to do, yeah, the crown on both sides or on both sides, either side, you don't need, you don't need two crowns, I promise. But it's a nice screw down crown. It's also a nice size. You know, they're very clear to say that it's oversized. It doesn't look, it's oversized in the way that like a big crown kind of looks oversized. It's very easy to grip.  Yeah. Bezel finish is lovely. All of this is really good. Yeah. I'm impressed by it. Yeah. That looks amazing. It's so nice just to, um, try something that's new or feels new. Right. Right. I agree. Doesn't feel like it's chasing either the Seiko world or the Rolex world or the whatever. They just, they've made their own thing like they did with the last one. Right. And, uh, I think it's just the right size. You know, 39 has largely become like the hot size right now. And, uh, and that's okay by me. I think it's really lovely. Yeah. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah. I'm loving these, uh, all these, these interesting, but I mean, we talked about the, the Baltic twin crown Aqua Scaf a while back. |
|James Stacey|I like that watch a lot. It's so pretty. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I mean, these, these small brands have just come up so much, man. I, I know I harp on that a lot on, on, on the show, but I'm just so impressed with all of these little brands that are just giving everyone such choice and it's just so encouraging. So yeah, that's really cool. And anything else, uh, catch your eye? I mean, I guess there's the, the ceramic black Bay with the movement. |
|James Stacey|I think we got to, I think we got to chat about that. I'm super impressed by this watch. I haven't seen it in person to be clear. I don't know if there's a press unit going around just yet. Yeah. I know that some, some of the blogs in Europe have already seen, have been hands-on with it. So maybe it, maybe it's just more of a centralized thing. So it's a, if you don't, if for whatever reason, if you miss this, it's a 41 millimeter black Bay, no date with a, a, Metis certified movement. Tudor, this is not only the first watch, but Tudor's the second brand to use Metis after Omega. Yeah. So it's a very high level of timekeeping certification. And then it's funny because, you know, people for years have said like, why can't I get a Black Bay with a ceramic bezel? Yeah. Yeah. Now they went, they went the whole step. It's a 41 millimeter fully ceramic case. Yeah. And it's, it's this really beautiful brushed gray, dark brushed gray with a matching dial. And it makes the, um, the markers in the hands like glow in every picture you see of it. Yeah, I absolutely love this. I this for me is a lot like the carbon doxa like that. I hope I don't think that they're ever going to move their whole black bay lineup to something like ceramic. Why would you? Yeah, but it is super fun to see something like this. And you know, it's 5400 bucks. So it's one of the more expensive black bays out there.  Dang, man, this is cool. I think this is a really good looking thing. Yeah. And it'll be really exciting to see if they decide to take the same thing and go down to the 58 sizing. Cause I think that would be, that would be a really good watch. |
|Unknown|Right. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. Yeah. It'd be super fun. So I didn't, you know, we, just because of the timing of our net, we no longer have it, but the previous two week gap, that's, that's when this kind of came out. So we missed it for the last show only by maybe hours when we were recording and just, Yeah. Yeah. Killer. So it's, yes, still COSC certified as far as the movement precision to two temperatures. Um, and then now you have a 15,000 gas anti-magnetism still 200 meters. Water resistance is 70 or 70 hour power reserve. And it's, um, yeah, it's micro blasted. Sorry. I said it was brushed. It's micro blasted, which I guess is probably why it has such a, um, a matte finish. Right. And then it has these really lovely polished elements, which are common to the black Bay design.  Yeah. Uh, if, if for whatever reason you miss this, be sure to swing by their website or I'll link, um, the coverage that Hodinkee has in the show notes. Uh, the definitely some, some good stuff coming from Tudor. And I like that they're, they're kind of bobbing and weaving. They're coming out with stuff every two or three months now. Right. Um, which I, I hope that's something that we just see more of where it's not, it's not all condensed to March, April. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I think one of the questions that came up, Uh, I think Jack even mentioned it. I think he did the writeup for Houdinki was about, um, you know, why didn't they debut this Metis movement or even the ceramic in, in the Pelagos, which is kind of their forward thinking, modern persons dive watch. Um, but you know, black Bay is their bread and butter. I mean, that's the, that's the popular one and, and yeah, as well as we'll keep, stay the course, I suppose. |
|James Stacey| Yeah, and the other thing is, I think not only is the Pelagos a little bit niche compared to the Black Bay, if I'm allowed to editorialize or make up, read between lines that I'm also making up, then my guess is that the cost of replicating the Pelagos with the bracelet in ceramic would have been huge. Ceramic bracelets, that's like the Chanel J12. Legitimately, that's a different price point.  Yeah. Right. Yeah. And, and I do, I wonder if that, if that was kind of a hold back where that bracelet is so key to the Pelagos experience. I almost wonder if, if, if there's making the, the, the bracelet also in ceramic, maybe there's wear and tear, maybe a ceramic bracelet can't take the kind of knocks that a tough dive watch needs to take. Right. Cause you could shatter a link conceivably, you know, we've, we've all seen the kind of scary warning images of the guy that dropped his dark side of the moon.  and pop and just shattered, broke one of the lugs off like the handle from an old mug, right? Right. So it's, yeah, my guess is there's some of that there as well. We don't see ceramic in sport watches a ton, but it is becoming more and more common, largely probably due to the success of things like the dark side of the moon. Yeah, true. I think this is cool. I look forward to eventually seeing it and I hope that it becomes something that's a little bit more common It's not certainly not their first time going ceramic. I think the fast rider, um, had a ceramic case element. Um, but this is, you know, this isn't a, this isn't a different line. This is into their main, this is their bread and butter. So, uh, I think it's cool. I think it definitely looks good. I like a no date black Bay. The balance is nice. It's also just two lines on the dial as far as text. |
|Jason Heaton|Um, I think the word is black Bay on the dial. Does that bother you? |
|James Stacey|No, not at all. No.  But, uh, you know, this is like, this is like I've said before, where there's, there's definitely, there's elements of watch appreciation that elude my, um, finicky temperament and like what the words are on the dial matter to me a lot less than how big they are, how many words or letters there are, you know? Um, and it doesn't bother me at all. That says Black Bay. I mean, I think, you know, Seamaster say Seamaster, uh, Submariner says Submariner.  Yeah. Uh, so I, I think it makes sense, you know, that their competition puts the name on the dial. And I think it's now, it's definitely a name that they can be super proud of at this point. I think it might've been a different thing to have put it on the first one. |
|Jason Heaton|I always kind of liked the fact that, that, that watch that the black Bay family didn't have the name anywhere. I mean, maybe it had it on the back. I can't remember, but for some reason it was always like, it's like, this is the black Bay, but it doesn't say black Bay on it. It doesn't bother me, but it's, uh, it is a departure. |
|James Stacey| If you're going to put the name on a watch, it should be a black one. So this is not as close as they've come. They've definitely made black ones, but I think this suits it. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It definitely wouldn't be any sort of a deal breaker for me. Right. There's actually some weird texts on the watch I'm going to bring up in my wrist check, which also wasn't a deal breaker for me, just some weirdness. Hmm. Hmm. Well, yeah, good one on Tudor for that. If you don't know this watch or you didn't see it when it came out, hit the show notes, the rest of that. And we can, of course, proudly say notes.thegrenado.com. There we go.  That's where you can find all that. But you want to jump into wrist check? |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, let's do that. I mean, mine's quick. I just talked about it. I'm wearing the Scurfa, the MS21, which is just a very satisfying and fun watch. Price aside, it's just a blast to wear. And I think you feel the same about certain brands, Helios, Bremont, to a certain degree. But knowing the people behind the brand, or in this case, the person, is just part of the fun, I think.  Absolutely. Having, having had that great chat with Paul and having him had him contribute, uh, uh, some, uh, his expert eyes on, on depth charge, uh, just, just made it all the more rewarding to, to wear his watch. It's just, uh, it's his creation. It's really cool. And the fact that he tests these watches in a saturation chamber, uh, in a hyperbaric environment is, uh, just, uh, it's like wearing an SBS issued, uh, dive watch, I guess. That's cool. Yeah, for sure. How about you? Very cool. |
|James Stacey| Yeah, mine, to keep the show short and not to go too long, it's that Serica, which we just spoke about. So easy enough there. I think I'd said that there was a weird... When I mentioned the watch that has some weird text on the dial, what I meant is the watch that I'll be talking about in the main topic, which we can get to anytime. I'm very impressed by these Sericas, like I said. And yeah, stay tuned for a full review. But that's what I've been wearing this morning as I get back into the swing of things after my vacation. Nice. Cool. Yeah, for sure.  So for this episode, we thought it would be fun, especially now going to weekly episodes and launching the new show notes to kind of revisit a format we hadn't worked on in a while. And I actually, if you'd asked, I wouldn't have guessed it was this long, but the last time that we did a, um, a collection inspection was, uh, we were still in double digits. I think it was like episode 98 was, uh, was a collection inspection eight. Wow. Uh, so today, today we're going to do our first collection inspection. I mean, since the pandemic, uh, certainly.  Cause that 98 would have put us just before the, the isolation tapes and those. So we're going to do collection inspection nine. I'm looking forward. We have two pretty different watches to chat about. So Jason, how about you go first? I'm going to, I'm going to pull mine out of my, my case here. Sure. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I had to dig pretty deep for this one recently. I mean, within the past week, this is a watch that sits well at the bottom of my, I don't even keep it in the, in my watch roll with the stuff I wear more regularly. This one, I kind of have this, this little wooden, I think it's an old cigar box or something that I keep kind of my, um, watches I don't wear very often. And, and I pulled this one out a couple of weeks ago. This is a, it's a Seiko reference 7002, which was a watch they made just prior to the, the SK SKX line debut, which was, I believe in 96. So this, this watch kind of bridged the gap between Seiko's turtle, the original turtle, the 6309, 6306 references from the from the 70s and into the 80s. The 7002 has the same case as the SKX and, you know, to the uninitiated or the less fanatical Seiko person, you know, it just looks like a, like an SKX 007 from a distance. But my own history with this watch is, you know, Ghoshani and I were driving through a small town in Southern Minnesota on our way somewhere camping or whatever.  We, we aren't like thrift store, Goodwill, you know, flea market kind of shoppers. But, um, for whatever reason, I don't know if we stopped for lunch or something. There was this, uh, thrift store, um, that we decided to kind of walk through and peruse. And, you know, every time I go in these places, I, you know, I don't like kind of just knickknacks and collecting stuff, but I always go in with this mission of like, do you have any wristwatches? You know, the only wristwatches and nine times, nine times out of 10, they don't, or they'll have kind of a you know, a jar full of, yeah, a bin full of, you know, really old caravels and stuff from Eaton's. Exactly. Yeah. Um, but in this case I found this Seiko and I got very excited, um, given my own history and interest in Seikos. And so, you know, I said, how much is it? And I think it was, I think it was $40 and you know, it was, it's a shake and bake, you know, it doesn't even hand wine. So they, they pulled it out of the case and handed it to me and I, gave it a few wobbles with the wrist and sure enough, it started right up. And I was like, done, I'll take it. Um, you know, I didn't really need another Seiko, you know, probably had a few kicking around at that point and still do. Um, but something about it was just, it was, I just love these watches. Um, and this one in particular is, you know, I'll never know the backstory of this watch unless somebody listening to the show, you know, miraculously used to own this one, but on the back of it, on the, on the, One of the lugs is like clearly hand scratched with like a little sharp knife or something. The initials CHH. So presumably the previous owner wanted to put his initials in this watch. Um, and then it's just beat. I mean, it's just, it is just so beat up the, the, the, the bezel itself, the crystal has some scratches, but not horrible to the point where you can't read the dial. But you know, the bezel looks like it was just run through a belt sander or something. I mean, it's just completely scratched and nicked up.  Um, and you know, the, the dial has its, uh, the markers have, it's kind of sickly green kind of fade to them that, that Saco's get as they get older. But, uh, you know, like I said, I don't wear this watch very much, but I pulled it out because, you know, we're getting into summer. I'm kind of doing more kind of rough stuff with, with watches that I don't want to have to think about. And this watch really fits the bill. I paid next to nothing for it. Um, you, you know, the cliche of Saco's kind of putting up with anything and being the perfect beater really holds true with this watch. And so, um, but, but beyond that, I think that era of Seiko, you know, I've talked and written extensively about my own history with Seiko and how my, one of my first watches was this mysterious Pepsi bezeled watch that I had back in high school, which was, you know, around the era when this watch was probably on somebody's wrist as well. And I don't know, I just, I, I have this like nostalgic warmth whenever I put a Seiko on that just, it makes me, just want to, I don't know, I just look at them and they're very eye pleasing. They make me smile. And you know, I've got an SKX 175 with a Pepsi bezel that I got a few years ago that I wear occasionally. And I've got, you know, the turtle and, and, and the, the safari and, um, I love those watches. Um, and I, I kind of have been rotating. I've been on real Seiko jag lately, but you know, the last week or the week before that, new, I think it was just last week, that new Seiko Willard SPB watch came out with the nylon strap that Seiko has come out with. Which, you know, I mean, it's a NATO strap, but for some reason, and everybody's been echoing this, it's just a really cool looking kind of braided strap that apparently is made the same way that kimono ties are made as well.  And they've got a slightly different dial treatment. And it's, it's just a cool looking watch. And I'm just resisting so hard wanting that watch. I, I think you and I have talked about it, you know, you've got the SPB 143 and then the SPB 151 and 153 are kind of the Willard modernizations. I can't remember the reference of this, uh, this one that came out last week with the different strap, but like I'm Jones. So 239, the 239. Okay. So I I've just been Jonesing really hard for, for a Willard and I wrote something on Substack about Seiko last week and like my kind of summer always brings out my, my Seikoness. And I think I've been cycling through my, my own, my own Seikos to kind of fill that void or fill that need or kind of sate my appetite for acquiring this, this modern Willard with this cool strap. And, and it remains to be seen whether I can fight off that urge further, but I don't know. It's something about this.  reference 7002 kind of scratches the edge to a certain degree. And I put it on the, on the mat supreme from, from crown and buckle, which, you know, from a distance. And if you're squinting kind of approximates that kind of textured looking nylon strap that, that's a new one. And it's, it's a proper summer beater watch. And I just love it. I think if you are not a Seiko fan, you're more of a watch snob and you look at this, you'd think, Oh, for one thing it's, it's just beat to hell, but it's also, you know, it's not a JDM, it's not a Japan domestic market Seiko. It doesn't, you know, it's, I think the bottom of the dials, like, you know, like, uh, it looks like a world timer. It's got like dials made in Malaysia. The movements come from Singapore, the assembly was done in Japan or whatever it is. And, and, you know, um, so for the purists, I think, you know, people always kind of go for the Japan market Seikos, but I don't know, to me, it's like, this is, this is Seiko at its best. This was Seiko, when I was discovering Seiko back in the nineties, when, when these watches were, um, you know, were just bought and used by everybody, including this mysterious CHH. And I got it for 40 bucks and, and, you know, it sits in my box, uh, 350 days of the year. And then I pull it out for a couple of weeks and strap it on and have a lot of fun with it. And, uh, to me, that's the essence of Seiko. I like it. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. I mean that, that, um, the picture that you've got of it on your Instagram, It just, it looks like a, yeah, like a well-worn pocket knife or like, like something that's still being cared for and enjoyed, but no, no fuss at all. Right. And then there is a little bit of just like, especially if you're used to wearing an SKX or, um, a turtle or, or, or any of those, the square markers. Yeah. It's that, it's that little bit of flair, right? Like if, if, you know, if you're really deep into a certain car, you might be, you can tell one generation from another. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey| And you can kind of, well, those headlights are that shape because it's a this generation or that. And this is one of those kind of not forgotten, but obviously 6309, pretty, pretty big deal among collectors. And then 007s, SKXs in general, also a pretty big deal among enthusiasts. And you have this sort of middle generation, maybe, you know, maybe this is the 964 of the 911s, you know, this kind of, it's beautiful and perfect, but was largely for whatever reason kind of didn't get the same love as a 993 later on or say a G body before it or something like that. A really, really, really cool thing. And it is fun to see a certain point, like for not a ton of money, you could like lay out all of these and see the evolution, which I think is also kind of fun. Like if you're going to collect, I guess if you wanted to collect something, maybe you're, maybe you're actually moving towards being something of a Seiko collector. |
|Jason Heaton|I mean, you know, unwittingly, I think, I think you might be right. And, and you know, I had, waxed philosophical and sort of nostalgic about my love of Seiko's in this Substack article I wrote. And one thing that has happened or has come out of this is that first Seiko that I bought back in the late eighties was this case shape. I believe it had, I believe it had the Lassen shaped markers, which I might be wrong, but I pretty sure like, like the SKX markers, these roundy ones. Um, it had a day date.  And it was an automatic. And the day wheel on that one was Arabic text. Um, which was really weird for me, you know, growing up in suburban Milwaukee and buying this watch, I was like, what is that? I don't even know what that is. So, um, but I, I sold it years later and I regret that. I wish I had that watch, but I don't know what it was. And what, what has come out of this is, is almost this sort of crowdsourced, um, search and people have been sending me ideas. Like maybe it was this, maybe it was that. And, And there's this weird, I learned about this weird derivation of the 6309. So the 6309 is the famous turtle from, you know, the seventies and the watch that they based the SRP on that really bulbous kind of roundy case. But for a brief period, um, there was a six, what they called a 6309 slim case, which was a 6309-729A or 7290. And, had the same case shape almost as an SKX with that little kind of loopy crown guard at the, at 430 or whatever. Um, and it came, and you could get it with a Pepsi, uh, bezel. It had square markers, I believe. Um, yeah, that's what I'm seeing. And a day date. And so people are like, maybe it was this, maybe it was the slim case 6309, which would, would have been fit right at that era when you had it. So that's kind of the leading contender.  But I bring it up only because, you know, you mentioned looking at the lineage and you can see going from. |
|James Stacey|That's like a transitionary model. |
|Jason Heaton|You know, 62 Moss to 6105, you know, obviously with a few others thrown in there, tunas and whatever, um, up through the 6309, then you've got the 6309 slim case thing. And then the 7002 that I'm wearing or that I'm talking about today and then SKX and then so on.  But, uh, Seiko is just a fun world. I mean, you know, we've talked about Seiko. I think we've, we did a whole brand episode on Seiko and obviously they've sponsored episodes, et cetera, et cetera. But, um, my love for them is still deep and it kind of resurfaces every summer. I, it's not a winter watch for me. I never wear Seikos for some reason when the weather gets cold. I, I, I'm not sure why it is, but, um, I just like a Seiko on my wrist when summer comes, whether it's the safari or the turtle or this one. But, uh, yeah, I,|
|James Stacey| I think the other thing that speaks to where Seiko is today, like how big they are today, is that definitely in the last five years, maybe even more than that, but over the last five years, the watch, the cost of entry to being a watch enthusiast has just skyrocketed. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like, sure, there's Scarfa's and there's Elliot Brown's and there's other stuff that is under $500 or even less than that. But in the wide scheme of things, the core, 10 or 20 watches that kind of you immediately get funneled into if you start reading about sports watches. Yeah. They're nine out of 10 or five to, you know, high four to five figure watches. |
|Unknown|Right. |
|James Stacey|They're Rolexes, they're Seamasters, they're just kind of more expensive stuff. And those watches are all great, but the stakes are high. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. Right. And the stakes with a $40 Rolex from a Value Village or whatever, that's not that high. The stakes for a brand new Turtle. Not that high. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. And, and, and, you know, this is the case I made when I did my big write-up on the SPB 143 is like, if you've been through the 20 or 30 de facto sub thousand dollar Seikos, you might want to start considering these four, four figure ones, like, like an SPB 143. Sure. But I do, I still think their core is around say $500, right. Or, or say $250, $500. And that's special because they have no, they have no legacy competition at that price point.  There's no world in which you see a Rolex for anywhere near that kind of money in the last 25 years, right? And same with Omegas, and for good reason, for sure. But as the stakes go up, people will see the value thing kind of changes, right? And I think that Seiko offers so much variety at under a grand that it's just a huge, just a massive presence. And they're still putting out really cool stuff like you brought up, two new SPBs, which is the 239, the 237, uh, both really, really pretty things. And then you have the SBDC to two, three, something with the white dial and the blue bezel. Um, I, you know, there's some great stuff there, but thankfully I'm still very, very happy with my one, four, three. Yeah. Yeah, no, I think, I think say, I mean, we've, uh, we're only rehashing things that we've covered on previous episodes at this point, but yeah, they are, they are just, The smiles per miles, the value for your dollar or whatever you want to call it is just super high. Even when you're buying new, it's obviously considerably higher when you're paying 40 bucks at a Goodwill or whatever, but that's a great story and a handsome watch. |
|Jason Heaton|The other thing about Seiko, especially at this level, actually at almost any level, is it's a very classless is maybe the wrong word, egalitarian, I guess maybe is a better word. Like it straddles, socioeconomic levels, cultures, geography, et cetera. Um, I always equate, you know, whenever I drive the old Land Rover around, um, or even actually when I had the old alpha Romeo, they're very disarming vehicles. Um, you know, people wave and give thumbs up and ask you about them and whatever. Whereas, you know, if you, if you roll up and no offense to anybody out there that has a nice swanky and a Porsche or even a Ferrari or something, but like, There's always this like sidelong glance of like somebody that rolls up to the stoplight in this rumbling, powerful, very expensive looking sports car. Whereas like something old and a little bit more disarming people are more, it feels a little more approachable with a Seiko, especially an old Seiko. You know, I, one story I have with this particular watch is, um, the guy that used to do my regular, especially when I was heavy into more watch writing and I was getting watches, you know, every other week for reviews and they would always come via FedEx and my FedEx delivery guy, the regular guy, Mike.  Um, kind of an older guy used to always do the deliveries and he always wore an SKX Seiko. And I remember commenting on it and I think one day I was wearing my turtle and he said, Oh, you know, I showed it to him and he said, Oh, I think I had one like that. And it turns out he was in the Navy during the Vietnam era. And I was like, Oh, I bet I know which one it was. And it was, he said, yeah, I think it was anyway. So he, I think his watch broke or something or he lost it or whatever. And, and he was asking me if I could order him another one. He was like, you know, internet agnostic. Like he, he didn't do anything on the web. I couldn't even text him. I couldn't, you know, to get hold of him was like, next time I drop something off, we can talk, you know, I'll give you a wad of cash if you'll buy me this replacement Seiko online or something like that. So, so to tide him over, I put this 7002 on like, you know, an old Z22 rubber Seiko strap and gave it to him and he wore it for like the three weeks until the one that I bought for him, which he wanted the smaller one. So I ordered him the SKX013, which is that|
|Unknown| Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|What is it? 36, 37 millimeter. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and he loved it. Um, but he was wearing this one for awhile and you know, it was like, it was like almost Seiko has become not currency, but like, you know, it's just like here, you know, wear this for awhile, beat it up. I don't care, you know, where like, I don't know. I just, I love that about it. It's you can go, you know, I remember a dive guide in Sri Lanka, you know, at some beachfront little shack who was taking people out diving, you know, he, he was wearing an SKX that was all faded out by the sun and whatever. And it's, it's just, It's one of those watches you wear anywhere and everybody appreciates and no one thinks twice about. So that's mine this week. Uh, you know, at first blush, maybe not something super exciting, but you know, it's, it's everything, everything that I love about Seiko kind of wrapped up in this little $40 thrift store finding. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, for sure. No, I love it. I mean, Hey, any Seiko diver is a great watch. So, uh, and one with a, with a few battle scars and somebody else's initials on the back. That's also pretty cool. Yeah. All right. What do you have?  Yeah. So for, for mine, you know, I've spoke, I spoke about this watch on, I think one previous episode, but it's my Pallios Universa, which is a, you know, a modern, a modern offering from, from Pallios these days. It's currently available. So you basically, you, you get in line there being, I'm going to get through this part because I know this is where a lot of people will want to understand what's happening, but you can check out Pallios' website if it matters. So they're in assembly and testing.  They're making essentially 50 to a hundred watches at a time, two or three weeks between each batch of watches. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And, um, and so the, the idea here is that you, you kind of get in on a batch and then you get your watch. And that way they're attempting, Halios is attempting to avoid the kind of bum rush of their website when they launch a watch. And then it's mostly complaints from people who couldn't get one. Uh, this way, I think this kind of assuming you're patient enough, which I feel like I saw this watch maybe two years ago before I got one. Yeah. Um, the first time in, you know, in 2019. And, uh, yeah, I, uh, the, the watch itself is, is it, it's a derivation from the normal Hallios because it's not a dive watch. It's more in the vein of an Explorer, uh, or, uh, maybe, uh, uh, like a Black Bay 36. It's a no date three hander, uh, a hundred meters water resistance. This is hand wound. It's 11 millimeters, uh, thick, uh, 38 millimeters wide.  and 48 millimeters lug-to-lug, so it's actually a pretty long watch for its width. But I would encourage you to check out some photos. The lugs curve down so nicely that you'd have no idea it was more than 45 millimeters lug-to-lug. It just absolutely hugs. I have a seven-inch wrist. It hugs my wrist. It comes with a really fantastic kind of flat-link bracelet that integrates into the lugs in a manner that is not common to a $700 watch at all. Yeah, yeah.  So, of course, I got the pastel one. It comes in a couple of different colors right now, including, I think, like maybe a gray dial and like a dark blue. I don't think you can go wrong with any of them. I wanted the pastel because, of course, we'd auctioned off my pastel C4th. So there's kind of a hole in there. Yeah. So, yeah, $735. And it uses like a Sellita SW210. It's a hand winding movement. So there's no phantom date position. There's no power reserve or anything. So like with my Auris, I just find that I forget to wind it.  certainly not an uncommon thing for someone like me who almost exclusively wears automatic watches. But the loom is absolutely excellent. The dial is gorgeous, has a nice big crown with a really heavy action to it. It winds nicely. A lot of facets and angles has a little bit of like a kind of a grand Seiko vibe to the lug shape and form. |
|Unknown|Yeah, I was gonna say. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And then this bracelet is kind of where I think it's really worth kind of talking about because they're also producing the Fairwind, which is kind of in many ways, it's kind of their next generation of, uh, like the Seaforth. Sure. And I think the Fairwind is gorgeous and I really hemmed and hawed on, on which I wanted, but because I have have, I think I've had at least one of every of the previous Hallios dive watches. I thought I'd try this and, and I'm super happy with the decision. I think the watch is gorgeous. I love how small it is. Um, really limited dial text. This is Hallios and has their logo and then it says 10 and then ATA for the atmosphere.  protection. And then like I said, with the weird text, so the it's square markers, but not for 12, three, six, nine, those are Arabic. And around the six on either side of the six, the word mechanical is kind of broken in half, right? So it's Mecca on one side and Nick Nicole on the other. Yeah. And it's really strange. Uh, it's, it's a, it's a weird quirky sort of element. Like I said, I don't, I'm generally not that picky, but I know I've sent a couple wrist shots to, you know, folks at Hodinkee and, and they always, they go, what is with Mecca and nickel? And I was like, yeah, a little bit of fun, I guess, like why not? Um, it doesn't, doesn't bother me, but it is definitely a little bit of strangeness to a watch that is otherwise not, not really strange in any way. And then getting back to the bracelet, like I said, it's a flat link, um, single-sided screwed links, which I like a lot for sizing. Um, but the, the big value here for, again, a watch it's under $800 US is it has, um, a push button micro adjust clasp that you don't even have to take the watch off your wrist to use. Oh, nice. Oh yeah. There's a logo. There's a logo in the clasp and that's actually a button. Oh really? Okay. Yep. And then it has maybe five or six ratchet points. You can even hear them here. For you ASMR fans. Oh wow. So yeah. And, and you can, you can kind of, um, once you get used to it, you can kind of pinch the bracelet and press the button and tighten it right on your wrist.  Um, but it's great as that's kind of summer thing that we talk about at least every year where, you know, you kind of, your risk kind of changes due to the, the, you know, water absorption throughout the day and, and especially when it's hot. And for that, I mean, I'm not really a bracelet guy, but a flat link is a good, is a good step in the right direction. They sit a bit, a little bit slimmer, they kind of conform a little bit better. And then this, um, man, this class I'm so I just love, I play with it when I'm bored and, uh, and kind of click it in and out. And then, And then if you have that thing where you just want, it feels kind of tight while you're typing, you just tap the button and flex your wrist and it expands all the way open. It's I like it a lot. I think they've made a, I think they've made a really good thing here and they they're still holding at this price point. And I genuinely believe they could be charging more than, than 735 for a watch like this. I'm, you know, I wouldn't say blown away cause I'm so used to what you do get from Helios, but I'm absolutely pleased with this watch and it's getting a lot of wrist time. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton| I love the look of it. I think those lugs, you mentioned Grand Seiko and it definitely has that, I guess it's 44 GS or some sort of, it definitely has a very angular look. I think the it's, it's funny because it has a very modern sort of architecture to it, but then the crown looks a little more old fashioned, you know, it's a little more. Yeah. It's a bit of an onion style. A little bit more onion style. Yeah. Yeah.  And then the bracelet is very modern looking. I feel like that. I haven't seen many wrist shots of this watch. I'll look through your Instagram for some wrist shots. I'm sure I can send you a couple. Yeah, I'm sure. Yeah, because, you know, you look at just a flat photo of the watch and 38 millimeters with those lugs, those long lugs, it kind of belies how I bet it wears because it, you know, from looking at a photo, it could be a 42 millimeter watch, it could be 36, Yeah. What's the lug to lug on that? 48. 48. Okay. So just that sweet spot. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. Oh, that's amazing. In some ways I thought that it might wear like a Nomos. Yeah. Right. Right. Where the lugs just kind of shoot off into negative space above the edges of your wrist. That was my concern. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't at all. And I'll drop a I'll find some way to put up a photo of kind of a side wrist shot profile view. Yeah. Cause it really does just sit flat and small. And you know, the other thing is, is I was really quite enamored by the new 36 millimeter OPs in yellow or orange, whatever that color is. Yeah. Like enough to start considering like, well, if I sold this and this and this, maybe I could make it happen. And this scratches the itch absolutely for under 800 bucks. Yeah.  Um, it, you know, it's a, it's a nice bright color. And, and, you know, if they did, if they do a Bahama yellow followup to the seat, the second gen C fourth, I might consider also trying to pick up one of those. Yeah. Cause like yellow is a watch color that I haven't really had enough time with. Yeah. But I'm, uh, I'm, I'm super happy with it. And the night it also has, I love, I really have returned to a deep appreciation. Maybe I bought a couple of vintage watches or a couple of watches with kind of like only okay. Loom. It's so nice to have like legit loom. Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah, and it has it has a nice little detail on the inside of the marker set. There's like a groove, a circular groove cut into the dial. Yeah. Which adds just a little bit of fun when when certain light hits it, it just kind of adds a little bit of detail to to put some depth into the dial. So, you know, I'm I'm on record here. You know, a huge Hallios fan have been for pretty much as long as I've been into watches. Jason's been on the show. I'll put that in the show notes. Huge, huge fan. I think this is a really successful piece. I still haven't seen a like a production spec Fairwind. So that's, I should, I'd like to check one of those out sometime soon. Uh, but if you're, if you're in the market for a smaller everyday sports watch that you could absolutely, you know, take in the pool or whatever, uh, I think, I think this is, should be on your radar. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, no, this is great. I mean, I think, you know, stark contrast to the watch that I had and yet kind of occupies that same, I don't know, that same general vibe as, as, you know, I guess it's very TGN.  And I think here's another brand, here's another brand that likes Kerfa. I mean, you know, having that knowledge or connection or, you know, I mean, I've been to dinner with Jason Lim from Helios and you know, you can see him coming through in these watches. I think the little quirky stuff like putting mechanical at the bottom or how the Helios logo is underneath the name at the top or the 10 ATA, like all these little things that you can see coming through with a small brand that is driven by its owner, who's designing the watches. It's like, you can see that personality, they're free, they feel free to kind of take a few chances and do things a little bit differently. And I really admire that about a watch like this. |
|James Stacey|So yeah, I think you know, I think a lot of I think a lot of the micro brand space has become pretty anonymous. Yeah, maybe due to Kickstarter, you don't. And maybe this is just me and in some ways you, Jason, like projecting towards people who wouldn't have any direct interface with the people who make their watches, whereas we're kind of used to talking with people who work for the brands or even are the brand in this case. Yeah. But there is something, I think there's, yeah, there is a nice thing where you can kind of see the personality. And if you've had even a couple of Halios, as you can see this evolution of style that went from, that went from, you know, making an interesting watch in the very early days based on mostly off the shelf parts. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey| to slowly becoming more specific and, and, um, and yeah, and characterful in, in their execution. And I think they really hit a stride around, you know, between the, um, the Tropic and the, and the Seaforth. And then now we're seeing the Seaforth kind of aesthetic, uh, splinter off into other things. Yeah. And, uh, cause you had a, a, a bezel, not a no bezel, but you had a sterile bezel, a sort of clean bezel Seaforth, or maybe you still do. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. My mom wears it. |
|James Stacey| Yeah, I think that's like a strong precursor to the watch that we're talking about here. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, definitely. Yeah. I love these kind of bezel-less sports watches because, you know, dive watches are just ubiquitous. I mean, it's kind of the default these days. And to have one without that is just sort of a everything watch, which we've talked about before, just a watch that you just wear to do stuff and you don't have to have a label for it, is actually refreshing. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, and where the bezel would be, so the main the ring directly against the, uh, the edge of the crystal is actually high polished. Okay. So some, sometimes it looks black, sometimes it's reflective. I think it's a really interesting choice to not just make that, you know, cause like on your Seaforth, it's almost like they pop the bezel off and then put a cap on. Right. Right. That was kind of like, uh, almost like quarter round or whatever, like, uh, like what you'd edge, uh, uh, a piece of cabinetry with, but, uh, with, with this, it's, um, it's kind of a two stage thing where the case, the outside ring is actually the top of the case. And then there's like a mirrored element that kind of frames the dial. And I think it's a really nice touch that probably like isn't expensive or difficult to just take someone who's made enough of these watches to know that it's around as an option. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. So that'll be in the show notes or Halliuswatches.com and also can't really send you to buy a Seiko 7002 to a specific site. If you want the modern Seiko makes a lot of great dive watches. We, Listed a bunch of them in the past hour. Uh, but yeah, that's, uh, that's the main topic collection inspection, volume nine. Uh, obviously we hope you love it. If you have any questions, feedback, followups, whatever thegraynadoatgmail.com and I'm proud. So I'm going to keep saying it. If you'd like to dig in deeper in the notes, notes.thegraynado.com. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I can't wait to see if we get some, uh, some good feedback. I encourage everybody to jump in there and subscribe obviously. Um, but also to leave comments. I think it'll be really fun to build that, that community around, uh, each episode. |
|James Stacey| I agree. And also, you know, we still get emails that are largely kind of just comments, like just a nice thing to say, or share a quick link or something like that. And we love those emails. That's not to, not to suggest otherwise, but this might be a more natural place where instead of sending it to an inbox that just Jason and I see, it can kind of go to the big, the bigger crew here. And we can go from there. And we've, I like teasing things. So we'll keep teasing. We have some stuff planned for probably the other side of the summer that is going to line up with some of this in, in, in a fun way. So, you know, stay tuned for that.  But hey, what would you say? Some final notes? Yeah, let's do it. |
|Jason Heaton|Um, mine is from, I guess it's a couple of weeks ago. It was a feature piece on, um, the New York times website. So I'm not sure if it's behind a paywall for everybody or if it's available. I'm not sure. We'll see when we throw the link up, but, uh, it was, it was an interactive piece called, has anyone really summited the world's 14 highest mountains? And I think, uh, it was particularly timely, you know, given, uh, all the kind of buzz around Nim's is, a project possible, uh, a couple of years ago. And, you know, just, I mean, for our audience, you know, we talk about mountaineering quite a bit and some of our heroes and, and that sort of thing. And, and so this, this article was, it takes a very different look because it's, it's kind of disputing the fact that anyone has actually reached the summit of all 14 of the world's 8,000 meter peaks because, um, they're, they're, they're people that kind of really dig into this stuff. And, and there are some mountains that there's, there's just, that extra little bit on each of them that is either too difficult to get to, or not visible when you're at the, I guess, a false summit. And with a bit of a lack of accountability these days, you know, short of, you know, a summit photo or a GPS coordinate or something, it can be difficult to prove that you actually literally stood at the very top. Now, for me personally, you know, when I climbed Mount Rainier, you know, you get, you climb up and you get to the summit crater, um, cause it's a volcano. And, um, if the true highest part, you have to go across the crater and then there's a slight part on the other side, that's a little bit higher. Well, when I got to the top, I was just shattered. I was just decided I'm just going to sit here and rest. And a couple other people decided to spend the extra half hour and like hike to the other side and, and get up to the absolute you know, tip top. And I was like, you know, I'm kind of okay here. The view is good. Sun's coming up and I'm tired. So I'm going to hang out here and take that extra 30 minutes break. So I'd be one of these people that did not actually summit, you know, Mount Rainier, um, technically speaking. And I think this article is very interesting. And it's one of these pieces that, you know, as you scroll, um, it kind of inter intermingles text with some, uh, audio portions and some really spectacular photos. There's, uh, Uh, some quotes and interviews with, with some mountaineers at Vsters is, is featured prominently in here and, and some of these kinds of researchers that, that really have looked into this stuff. And, um, and I don't know the, the photography, especially if you look at this full, you know, full screen and some of these kind of short, you know, repeating, uh, video files with, you know, snow plumes blowing off of Monteslu and, um, you know, just these 360 degree views of, of peaks taken with, uh, GoPros and that sort of thing. It's, it's.  It's, it's a pretty amazing article if you're, if you're into this stuff. So, uh, definitely check it out. Um, we'll put a link in the show notes and hopefully it's not, uh, living behind a paywall for those of you that aren't, uh, aren't subscribers to the New York times. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. I just clicked into it. I don't have a subscription and I didn't hit a paywall. I'm scrolling through this and just kind of getting lost in it. So I'm pretty excited to actually go back and read this. I remember you, you mentioning it in our Slack. Yeah. Um, And, and yeah, I mean, Hey, anything with, uh, with Mr. Vesters, I'm, I'm a big fan. Uh, you know, he's featured prominently in the piece I just wrote for Hodinke's new magazine about the Explorer 2. Um, yeah, this is, this is incredible. And it is, it is an interesting topic. You know, we've heard sometimes people, this comes up where, um, geological happenings, uh, changed the summit and then people start to have those arguments. And I think that's, that's like, uh, that's dumb. Like if you got to the top of the mountain in 1953, And it's the top was 10 feet lower due to an avalanche or something. Two years later, it's still the top, right? Yeah. Like the top, the top, I think, and it largely, I guess the point I'm making is the point this article makes, like there is a top and that's the summit and to go, to go to the area next to the top. Isn't quite summiting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, really, really, a really impressive piece. And not that you'd expect anything less it's the New York times, but yeah. Yeah. Really cool. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Good pick.  Mine is a movie that I've been reading that people aren't crazy about, and I guess I just wanted to provide a slightly different perspective on it. It's a new one, which you can rent because, of course, you can't really go to movie theaters all that reliably now. So you can rent it, and I did so. I did so for one specific reason. The screenwriter for this movie is probably my favorite writer out there right now, Taylor Sheridan. I've talked about Mr. Sheridan many times on the podcast in the past because I pretty much put one of his movies into every film club so far.  This is the gentleman that did, um, uh, Sicario and wind river and, um, ah, the bank robbery one with Chris Pine and Ben Foster. Uh, so good. Whatever that's called. I gave you enough to find it on IMDb. But, um, and anyways, this new one is called those who wish me dead. And it's a, uh, it's, I think that people expected something more like a Sicario or even more like a wind river. And I don't know, and this is directed and written by, the screenplay was written by Sheridan. So it is a, it's a Taylor Sheridan film, um, much like those other ones. Uh, but the, in, in my way, I, you know, I watched it and the lead in the film is Angelina Jolie. She's one of probably my least favorite actresses. Um, I just like, I've never really understood the, like the cult that follows her. Uh, you know, she's done some okay movies and, and I thought the movie that she directed was really quite lovely, but It has a lot of other people that I'm really big fans of. Nicholas Holt is in this and Jake Weber and John Barenthal, Tyler Perry. And it's about a... I'll just make it easy. I'll read the IMDb description. A teenage murder witness finds himself pursued by twin assassins in the Montana wilderness with a survival expert tasked with protecting him as a forest fire threatens to consume all of them.  So it is it is this kind of it's a kind of I would call it more of like a set piece drama, a little bit of an action drama. There's some guns and some punching and some fighting and all that kind of stuff. But it all wraps around. Jolie plays a sort of like one of those people that hangs out in a in a watchtower. Yeah, probably. I guess that's for the fire, the forest service. I'm not really sure of the. Derivation there, but and that's her job, and then she gets tangled up in this kind of bumbled assassination.  uh, that was, you know, that left a young boy still alive and lost in the woods. And, and I think the, you know, you know, I think it's currently holding a six out of 10 on IMDb, which doesn't seem fair. I don't like this movie as much as say Sicaria or wind river, but I do think that it's, it's a really good, like B plus a minus, uh, sort of, um, action thriller. Uh, and, and I think the important thing is for those of you who are, uh, not on the older side of our audience, but in my age or older, you'll remember a movie called Cliffhanger. Oh, yeah. Do you remember Cliffhanger? Oh, sure. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So Cliffhanger was about a mountaineer and guide played by Sylvester Stallone who comes across a downed plane with something in the plane that bad guys want. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And the bad guys played by John Luthgow. And I remember really fondly watching Cliffhanger a lot growing up.  You know, my parents had taped a copy from Cable that, you know, had the swears and whatever else pulled out of it. So it was just a lot of shooting and punching and running around in the woods. But it also had some fun climbing and beautiful scenery. And I think that's what you get in Those Who Wish Me Dead is a sort of modern interpretation of that formula. And I think within that guise, the movie's very successful. It's super watchable. It's definitely the kind of thing where, like, if Cable was still a thing in five or 10 years, this would be on every now and then.  because it is kind of a step in, step out, not on like a, like a cliff, like cliffhangers is really what, what kept kind of coming to my mind with it. So yeah, I, I all obviously throw it in the show notes. Check out a, check out a trailer right now. I think it'll cost you 20 bucks to rent it. So if you're, if you're looking for something to watch on a Friday night, I really think that if you don't, um, I guess it didn't, it didn't necessarily have the like emotional gravitas that wind river had, but also in some ways that makes it like easier to watch.  and just appreciate for being a bit of a romp. |
|Jason Heaton|It sounds like a proper summer movie. I mean, summer, you know, it's like you throw your Seiko on and watch this movie, you know? |
|James Stacey|Yeah, it definitely has like a beat up 7002 vibe for sure. Yeah. I was happy with it. I like an assassins chasing people in the woods movie. I know that's not necessarily a genre, but I'm sure I could find another 10 if you gave me time.  Yeah. And just a huge Sheridan fan. So yeah, this is one that I watched recently and enjoyed, and then went and read some kind of critical thoughts about it. Not critical negative, just critical from movie critics. And I think it's a bit of a pivot, but not in a way that I think is super hard to understand. So yeah, I enjoyed it. Jolie's good in it.  And, uh, yeah, I, uh, a fun one. And I think definitely worth the $20, especially if you've, if you've exhausted your Netflix watch list at this point, which I think many of us have. |
|Jason Heaton|Cool. Yeah. Good, good, uh, good summer kickoff film. And, uh, reminds me we probably are due for a film club at one of these, one of these weeks. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. You gotta, you gotta find it's hard. It's getting, it'll get, it gets harder and harder to find 10. |
|Unknown|Right. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|We might have to drop the film club down to two episodes, two movies, an episode or something like that. |
|Jason Heaton|Sure. Yeah, let's do it. |
|James Stacey| I also have been watching almost anything that's kind of set outside. I think my brain really wants outside time. I just finished another Taylor Sheridan show called, um, Yellowstone, which is all set in Montana. And like a lot of it, it's just Kevin Costner standing in a field, looking at mountains. And I, that's, that's in my zone. I like it. Uh, and the movie that I forgot the name of is Hell or High Water. Absolute, an absolute watch. Really good. But, uh, we have, we've gone, we've gone plenty long here. So, uh, let's, uh, let's end the show. What do you think? |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah, let's bring it home. As always, thanks so much for listening. Hit the show notes via notes.thegrenado.com proudly we say, uh, or the feed for more details. You can follow us on Instagram at Jason Heaton at J E Stacey and follow the show as always at the grenado. If you have any questions for us, please write thegrenado at gmail.com and please keep sending in those voice memos. We'll get around to another Q and a here. One of these coming weeks, please subscribe and review wherever you find your podcasts. |
|James Stacey| And we leave you with this quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson who said, Good luck is another name for tenacity of purpose. |
