
# The Grey NATO - 154 - July Q & A
Published on Thu, 29 Jul 2021 06:00:41 -0400



## Synopsis
This podcast episode features Jason Heaton and James Stacey answering questions from listeners about a wide range of watch-related topics. They discuss everything from their favorite dive watches and travel watches, to movie casting ideas for Jason's book "Depth Charge", to the differences between Swiss and Japanese watchmaking philosophies. They also share advice on servicing watches yourself, storing digital files, and choosing watches for special occasions like weddings and honeymoons.

## Links
- [episode page](https://thegreynato.substack.com/p/154-julyqanda)
- [episode MP3](https://www.buzzsprout.com/2049759/11310965-the-grey-nato-154-july-q-a.mp3)
- [episode webpage snapshot](episode.html)
- [episode MP3 - local mirror](episode.mp3)

## Transcript    
|*Speaker*||
|----|----|
|James Stacey| Hello and welcome to another episode of The Gray Nado. It's a loose discussion of travel, diving, driving, gear, and most certainly watches. This is episode 154 and we thank you for listening. I'm joined as ever by my intrepid co-host Jason Heaton. Jason, how you doing? |
|Jason Heaton|I'm doing great. Yeah, it's a classic kind of midsummer, hot, sweaty, sitting here in shorts and t-shirt and bare feet. And it feels good. I like it. |
|James Stacey| Oh, yeah. Well, a few things go with summer like a good Q&A. So as it is, as is our normal methodology for these, we're going to skip on the chit chat and the final notes and the rest and just get to the questions. Yeah. So what do you say we start with one from Samir about your becoming a civilian story? Yeah, let's do it. |
|Samir|Hey, guys. Thanks for the great podcast. My question is around an article that was written by Jason on his substack called Becoming a Civilian.  I thought this was a brilliant piece and really speaks to the pervasive nature of marketing in today's watch world. I was just wondering if the two of you could opine a bit more on that subject. And in addition, if you have any suggestions on ways of finding more thoughtful, unfiltered perspectives, we'd love to hear how you go about doing so. Thanks again. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks for that question, Samir, and I appreciate your reading my substack. For those who aren't familiar with what Samir is talking about. I had written an article on this Substack newsletter that I write weekly, um, called becoming a civilian and just a bit of an overview. I kind of use that term. I, it's actually not my own phrase. I got that from years ago. I think I was in a conversation with, with Ben Clymer actually. And he was talking about how when he started getting into cars, uh, kind of vintage cars, he really enjoyed being able to step away from this sense of being an expert in a specific field, uh, in his case watches and, and become kind of new at something again, you know, be a novice in, in cars and learning about them and joining forums and chatting with, with people who were, uh, more expert than him and just kind of starting from the bottom. And I have found the same with, with various things over the years. And it's, it's always nice, you know, as you get older, you can, you can continually kind of refresh and learn new things.  and kind of step away from the stuff that you're really ingrained in. And, and in my case, it's been watches and dive watches and that sort of thing. But, um, to, to kind of pull back from that from time to time and switch gears has been really quite rewarding. I've, I've found that personally with, with my, you know, Land Rover obsession of the past, you know, four or five years now, um, you know, learning what goes wrong, how to fix them, different configurations of them, kind of the history. Uh, it's, it's just been, Uh, it's just been refreshing. Same thing with over the past year, you know, Ghoshani and I really got into gardening, uh, you know, being kind of homebound, uh, during COVID. And, and that was another thing that we has been really rewarding to, to learn about and kind of become, become a civilian about and not, not focus on only the stuff that, um, you know, keeps my head down and, you know, hammering out, you know, words and talking about and writing about watches all the time. It's nice to kind of lift your head above the, the trench you're in and look around a little bit. So that's, that's kind of where I'm at. I think James, you've, you've had similar experiences. I mean, I think with the Jeep or renovating the cottage and some stuff like that. Right. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. I think the big thing I would say, you know, in, in, in becoming a civilian, I think the idea here is maybe just don't deny your curiosity. Um, I think it's easy, it's easy to kind of stay at the same restaurant or even the same dish at the same restaurant every time. Cause you know what it is and there's a comfort there.  And, and Hey, comfort is great. Absolutely. But especially when it comes to, to hobbies and just general interests, uh, follow your curiosity. And, and sometimes that means an investment, you know, uh, for me, sometimes the, it could be, you could be becoming a civilian within the same space that you might be an expert. So you might pivot away from dive watches and go to forties, cornographs or a dress watch, or, you know, just try, try something new, step out of that comfort zone. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey| And I think in many things, change is evidence in growth. And I think that there's a lot of... It's easier to not change or to try not to change and not to follow your curiosity. But read a book you'd never think you'd read before. Try a movie from a different genre. Check out a watch that maybe a few years ago you wouldn't have had any interest in, but now you have kind of like a weird sort of unexplained interest in.  try some new stuff and grow. And I think that's kind of the background behind becoming a civilian is not only just being able to enjoy learning a new thing, but finding the new thing that you're going to enjoy. And I think you have to be a little bit thoughtful about it. Sometimes it's lucky. You buy a car and it ends up being something you really like, like the Defender or whatever. And other times you have to be more intentional about it. And I would say that if you're at the point where something you used to love feels like a chore, even if it's work, even if there's a part of your job that you used to love, and now it feels like a chore, try and find a new way to approach it, to try and bring it back to where you started. For me, if I'm getting really tired of watches and reading press releases and downloading WeTransfers and formatting images for introducing posts and stuff like that, kind of the faster, less interesting side of this, I'll spend some time taking pictures of a watch or or I'll make some efforts to make sure that I have some new stuff coming in to keep that kind of a refreshing sort of a thing, rather than just, I'm going to do the same thing I did yesterday, but for a different green dial or whatever. But yeah, that's a good question. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. And Samir, you mentioned that you were kind of looking for blogs or publications that kind of capture that same spirit of becoming a civilian. And I think for me, it's a little bit tough to kind of identify a few, One that sticks out is the Ristorian by a guy named Justin who. Absolutely. He kind of focuses on capturing the history of particularly tool watches. And he's had a chance to interview some, you know, old C-Lab Rolex owners and you know, the use of Aquastar and some Navy projects and Antarctica expeditions and things like this. And you, you really get a sense of this enthusiasm and it's that kind of enthusiasm that I kind of feel like I used to have.  Um, and, and Justin's, you know, I think he's got a day job, but he, he does this on the side and he really goes at it with a passion. And I really. I really liked that about him. I think, you know, James, you might also know of a lot of people that do this kind of thing on, on YouTube, for instance, or, or a blog or a podcast, right. That, that might not just be about watches, but about, you know, cars or overlanding or audio equipment or something. |
|James Stacey|Right.  Yeah, I mean, it's kind of endless. I mean, if you're looking, if you're looking for watch stuff, I would definitely, I would definitely look on YouTube. Although I did this recently trying to kind of expand. I don't follow any watch stuff on YouTube currently. And I thought it would kind of dip into it. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And, um, and it all looks, all the thumbnails look identical to me. And this is probably cause I'm, I'm an older guy now, uh, in, in terms of the elder millennial, if you will. And some of it's just lacking for me, I watched the, I like the ones where they're kind of taking a watch apart and cleaning it and putting it back together. There's some, some kind of comfort in that for me. But for the most part, I mean, if, if your goal is to find you, you'd use the word unfiltered, which to me is always a shorthand for unprofessional and not unprofessional in, in that it's bad, but typically just one that doesn't come from, this is what the person does for their living. Oh yeah. But rather maybe it's more of a hobby, a vocation versus a profession.  Um, and, and, you know, for me, I, I don't, I don't really attach to unfiltered, especially within the space where I work. That's not really the zone I'm looking for. So I would definitely say, you know, somebody like, um, somebody like Justin and the restorian, he does an amazing job and, uh, and then just spend time in within the communities around content like that. And, and, and if you enjoy the TGN community, then spend time in the comments and the stuff will be shared. That's kind of natural. You know, it is that.  There is that kind of fat always rises to the top. These things still make it through the algorithms and the Google and the rest of it. It's just maybe a little bit slower and a little bit more niche than it ever was. And I think that's a good thing. That's what keeps people in a position where they can have a very specific audience and speak in a very specific manner to those people. And that's where all of my favorite content, whether it's on watches or more commonly cars and comedy and stuff like that, It's this hyper-focused thing that isn't always concerned with what's happening among the peers of the similar content, which is nice. Yeah, definitely. But yeah, solid question, Samir. And thanks very much for sending it in. Next up, let's hit one from Jeff about auction dream watches. |
|Jeff|Hi, Jason and James. Here's a question that is a bit outside the typical TGN scope, but I was hoping it would be fun and might invite some considerations and discussion.  With the auction season for the first half of the year wrapping up, if you had unlimited funds for any single watch from the major auctions thus far this year, which would you choose to bid on and win? There are numerous options which you have previously discussed as dream or grail watches, ranging from mill subs to Patek world timers to Royal Oak Perpetuals. My choice would be the Lange Datograph Lumen from the Philips Geneva 13 sale in May.  One of if not the best chronographs ever made with a modern, whimsical, sporty twist, almost invoking the Timex Ironman vibe that we all loved so much from our childhood. Looking forward to hearing your thoughts and selections. |
|James Stacey|Take care. Hey, Jeff, that's a great question. And man, that datagraph lumen, goodness sakes, what a cool thing that is, you know, long is great when they're when they're very stoic and in their kind of general vibe. But when they do these things that kind of step out of that, some of the Richard Longa stuff, that's like a classically sporty or the longest stuff that's this kind of youthful, sporty, just really, really great stuff. This answer could literally be an hour just because there's been so much auction action lately. So I went with a very specific answer, which is two different references, two different versions of the same reference from Patek Philippe. And it's the 570.  So there's a 570 owned by Andy Warhol that was sold recently via Christie's. It went for $150,000. Absolutely gorgeous. And a 570 is like if you asked an artistically capable child to draw you a watch, you would end up probably with something that looks like a 570. They're just very elemental, mid-century, gorgeous, not too big. And then it's Patek, so they made all sorts of different versions and based them around the same reference. So the other one, and this is a big dollar one, was offered by Philips, and it was a steel 570 with Breguet numerals and a two-tone dial. Just achingly beautiful. But clearly, I'm not the only one who had some interest in it as it went for $3.2 million. Holy smokes. Lastly, to keep my answer not too long, but any jean. Like literally almost any jean. Maybe not a calendar, maybe not like a day or point or date complication, but a chronograph or, or, or a resonance or something like that, uh, even the chronometric blue, uh, big, huge fan of the jorn stuff. And, uh, and I just love that. It's a very specific direction as far as watch design goes so that that's where mine would go. As far as like sport watches go, there's some dream stuff, but I know I would wear them less than a couple of Seiko's I own. So I feel like if I was going to go deep into, a vintage sort of dream watch auction space. It would be something super collectible, uh, like, uh, like a vintage Patek. |
|Jason Heaton|Nice. I mean, you know, for me, I don't follow the auctions as closely. Um, you know, I, I see the results pop up or, or some announcements of interesting ones pop up on Hodinkee every now and then, but I rarely actually go and kind of peruse the, the auction catalogs, but there is one auction house that, that pops up that I always take interest in and that's watches of Knightsbridge.  which is, I believe, a London-based auction house related to a retailer over there. And what specifically interests me is that they get a lot of British-issued military watches that they auction. And, you know, of course, they get Seamaster 300s and Millsubs. But every once in a while, they get these old 1980 and 1981 CWC automatic divers that were issued.  They're incredibly rare watches. I had written a story for Hodinkee years ago about, uh, those watches and how that's the watch that replaced the mil sub for a very brief time. Uh, the, the ministry of defense approached CWC to, to make a new dive watch for them, looking presumably for something more affordable than the Rolex. And just for two years, those were automatics and they're very difficult to find very rare watches. And occasionally they pop up on watches of Knightsbridge.  auctions. And so whenever I see that, I like to look and kind of check out what those are going for. And they're certainly expensive, you know, I think they're North of, you know, 10 grand. Um, but when you compare that to what you'd pay for kind of another, uh, issued military diver, um, from the UK, you know, that's a, that's a downright bargain. So I don't have a specific one. I was looking at their latest auction, which was in May and they have, it looks like six, CWCs that were sold and four of them were the quartz version, which came later, which are still very cool. I own a couple of them, but the automatic is the one to have. And then of course they've got the chronographs as well. But yeah, I mean, those are kind of the only auctions I look at. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|They've got some cool stuff and man, their page has a really gorgeous Tudor Monte Carlo.  You can put that on my list too. If I don't have a Patek 570 money to buy, you know, something Andy Warhol once owned. Although, you know what, these days a Monte Carlo may not be that far behind. Who knows, right? The market's so crazy for watches right now. But yeah, that's the WOK. So it's WOK.auction, but it's watchesofknightsbridge.com slash auctions. Hit the show notes for that, obviously.  And there's some some really good stuff here. Some lovely Cartiers as well. |
|Unknown|Goodness. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. All right. Let's let's get to the next question, which is about watch mistakes via Mike. |
|Mike|Hey, guys, Mike from South Texas, longtime listener. What is the biggest mistake you've ever made with a watch? I don't think that's something we talk about often. My biggest mistake was when I was probably 17 or 18. My dad, who I did not get along with well, handed me his Rolex Submariner, which was from the 70s, and basically shoved it into my pocket without saying a word. And I took it, had it for a while. And again, like I said, we didn't get along great back in those days. I had no idea what it was worth. I took it to a local jewelry store. I said, I want to trade this for an Omega because I want to be like James Bond.  They said, sure, no problem. Yeah. So got my Omega C Master 300 way back in the day. This was probably 40, 34 years ago now. And, uh, so it was long gone. I miss it now, of course, and, uh, wish I'd have kept it and, uh, hurt to know what the value of it probably is now. But anyhow, that started my lifelong love and quest for watches and I've bought them, sold them, flipped them, and own a few that I really love. My current favorite watch right now is a Tudor Black Bay 58, and it pretty much hasn't left my wrist since they came out. So anyhow, I know that's a little more than a minute, but I'd appreciate you guys talking about it. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks. Thanks for that, Mike. You know, sorry to hear about your regrets there. You know, I try not to think too hard personally about watches I've sold and kind of think back, oh, I wish I'd kept that. I think, you know, Certainly there was a certain Pepsi-bezeled 1675 GMT that I sold on. I can't even remember why I got rid of it because it was a beautiful watch with great patina and in really good shape, but I did. But, you know, I had my fun with it and I have fond memories. So I don't really have any specific regrets. I think, you know, I used to have one of the the modern Omega Ploprofs that I bought when they first came out, like the first year. I think I bought it within the first month or two of when they were released. And, you know, I'd love to have that watch again. I think the only true mistake that I truly regret was pawning off my original Seiko Diver that I bought in high school. I, you know, I think a lot about that watch and I wish I still had it. So if I have one watch sale regret, that would be it. And I think I netted you know, I bought it for 85 or maybe a hundred bucks max and I sold it for, I don't know, remember what I got for it, probably $40 or something. So too bad, but you know, that's life. |
|James Stacey|How about you? Mine's weirdly similar. I don't really have anything that I look back on as a mistake. I've never owned something that I couldn't rebuy. Like I have a couple of watches I wish I hadn't sold. I actually sold them all to the same person. He still has them. David, you're probably listening.  You've got a Zen that I still adore and kind of wonder why I ever sold it. You've got my Aerospace and you've got my Seiko World Timer. Those are three of the better watches I've had and I enjoyed all of them, but also I had my time with them. And I have to remember that the brain that I had that made that decision is not a stupid brain. It's the same one I have today that is now looking back forlornly at not having it.  And of the three, the one that I would probably go back and even rebuy if optioned would be the Aerospace. That was a charming watch that I would like to have in my collection. But beyond that, yeah, weirdly enough, Jason hit it very similar to where I'm landing. I kind of wish I had kept my first Seiko. I had a monster, a black monster that I've been looking at monsters a lot recently. I made a couple offers on orange versions.  And none have really come through, you know, their pricing is, is a little up from, from when it was back in the day. But I remember I bought one from creation watches or a site like that, uh, you know, a long, long time ago, long before I started writing about watches and just absolutely adored it. And for whatever reason, I, it was one of those things where I think I had spent my time with it and then I was done, but now I want more time with a, with a monster. So I might snag an orange one, uh, in the next little while they're not a fortune. They're a little expensive for a seven S 26.  caliber, but not a big issue there. So thankfully, yeah, I haven't made any big... Anything where I look back and go like, wow, that was a real doofus move on my part. It's just watches, they come and go. Yeah. Good question though. But good question. And maybe someday, Mike, that Rolex will make its way back to you. Right. Who knows? Yeah. Next up, let's get one from Brent about a one watch brand for a three watch collection. |
|Brent| Hey Jason. Hey James. Brent Robillard from Athens, Ontario, Canada. Calibre 321 on Instagram. Love the show. Love that you're back to Once a Week. My question. If you could choose only one watch brand from which to build a three watch collection within your means, which brand would it be and which watches would you choose? Cheers. Keep doing what you do. |
|James Stacey| Thanks so much for that question. And obviously for your Canadian sense of brevity and a solid Instagram account as well. So that's worth a follow for anyone who wants to keep up with Brent and what he's up to. Jason, where do you land for this? It's a one watch brand, but you get three watches, but it has to be within your means. So there's a few stipulations there. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. This reminds me of our challenge episodes. We've done one for Seiko and then for AORUS and I think both would be Great ones for, for, you know, what I can afford and lots of good choices. I'm actually going to go with, uh, for today, I'm going to, I'm going to say Seiko. Um, I'm kind of in a Seiko jag this summer. And, uh, I, I think what I want to do with, with my funds, whatever those may be, this isn't a strict challenge. So we'll kind of just be loose with it, but I'm, I'm going to go vintage and I'm going to get a Pogue. I've never owned a Pogue. Uh, this is like the six, one, three, nine chronograph.  With the yellow dial. With the yellow dial and the Pepsi bezel. I mean, just crazy cool watch. I've tried one on a couple of times and I feel like one day I'm going to have one. |
|James Stacey|It is weird that you've never owned that. Yeah, yeah. That's in your space, I think. |
|Jason Heaton|It sure is, yeah. So I think I'm going to go with like a vintage Pogue, which I think you can get for $1,000 to $1,200. And then I need a solid modern dive watch that I can just wear and beat on. And that's a tougher one. I think, you know, the SPB line is certainly Certainly intriguing and probably more in terms of what I can afford. But I'm going to swing for the fences and get an SLA 037 diver. You know, just to... 037 is blue? Is that the blue one? 017 was the first one. 017. All right. Yeah, I think I'll go with the SLA 017. So the kind of the higher end movement of the vintage style dive watch. I think, you know, I could certainly go with an SPB, but I think, you know, in this fictional, uh, hypothesis, I'm going to, I'm going to go big here. And then, uh, I want a dressier one. I want to, I want a grand Seiko. If we're lumping grand Seiko in with Seiko, I think, I think I'm going to, I think I'm going to do some something dressy. Um, you know, either like their hand wound smaller, you know, very simple, uh, GS, or, you know, I have the, uh, S I think it's the S BGM.  21 or 221 I can't remember which but the the beautiful ivory dial GMT that I actually own that I bought in Tokyo at the boutique there. I think that trio would be a very nice You know depending on whether you go SPB or SLA sub $10,000 Trio of watches from the same brand that are very different watches you get this colorful vintage chronograph from you know arguably the first brand to have a automatic chronograph and then a modern dive watch that you can just wear 90% of the time, and then this kind of dressy travel GMT from Grand Seiko. So that's where I'm landing. |
|James Stacey|What about you? Well, I'm really regretting just letting you go first on these questions, how I'm feeling at the moment. Yeah, if we're allowed to do Seiko and combine Grand Seiko, mine's largely similar. It'd be an SPB 143. It's a watch I absolutely adore. I can't take it off my wrist. I put it on a Perlon today, and I think that's probably where it's going to be for the summer.  I just absolutely adore this watch. I think it's, for everyone who asks, it's worth every penny of the $1,200 they ask for it. I just think it's fantastic. There's now seven versions, I think. And I'm hoping that we start to see a little bit of a modding culture. I'd love a steel, like a bright steel bezel instead of the dark one. At some point in the future, I'd also love a luminous bezel if that becomes available. So I think over time that that'll be there, but it'd be an SPB 143, a Gen 1 monster, black or orange, probably orange.  just because the SPB 143 is very dark in its coloring. And then I would also go with a GS, but I would be spending the bulk of my means on a vintage 3180. So that's the original Grand Seiko. Oh, and I priced these out just before the pandemic and because I was going to be in Japan and I had intentions to buy one. And, you know, they start the floor, the real floor. And this is a rough floor.  is going to be around four or five grand, and then you're going to go up from there. So I think it'd be in the same money range as an SLA 017. You know, you're talking five, six, $7,000, and it'd be a lot to spend on a watch, but I think they're deeply collectible. And like the like the Caliber 570 or the Patek Reference 570 I mentioned in a previous question, it is a very elemental dress watch. It's a beautiful, creamy ivory dial, yellow gold case, mountain hands.  You can even get ones that have an engraved Grand Seiko signature, which is done by hand into the dial face. Very difficult to find now in great condition. So I'm not going to say I would get that generation, but something from that. This is the watch that they have now remade several times. The SPG W252 being the most, I think the most original that's of 2017, but they've done this a few times now with different metals and versions. And you can tell by the color of the seconds hand, which one it is and that kind of thing.  a watch that I absolutely adore, probably my favorite Grand Seiko. I love the modern one as well. But of course, a modern, solid yellow gold watch is going to really slam that budget. And I'd like to be realistic in what I would spend. And I think if I were liquidating my entire stock these days to buy three watches, I think I could make these three happen. |
|Jason Heaton|That's a fun question. Yeah, for sure.  Let's jump to the next one from David who wants to spend Christmas in Bonaire. Who doesn't? |
|Dave|Greetings, Jason and James. This is Dave from Atlanta, Georgia. Really appreciate all the content. You guys keep up the good work. This is a question that is going to be more for Jason than I believe James. With all the travel restrictions that are finally beginning to open up a little bit, my wife and I are considering taking a vacation over Christmas to someplace warmer than Atlanta. And with everything that Jason has said positive about Bonaire over all the years, we're considering trying to do Christmas in Bonaire with my wife and myself and my 18-year-old and 21-year-old. Kind of curious about any tips or insight that you could give us. We are not divers. We have done snorkeling in the past a lifetime ago, my wife and I, so snorkeling does hold some interest.  Going someplace warm, going someplace different, going someplace with a beach and with a sun is very appealing. So like I said, appreciate the good work and I look forward to hearing your responses. Thanks. |
|Jason Heaton|All right, David. Uh, appreciate the question. Um, I'll, I'll take this one having been, been to Bonaire and I think double digit times. Um, and, and you know, after, after this past year, I'm, I'm itching to get back there as well. Um, I do think that if you're not a diver, uh, I'm going to actually suggest that you look into, um, not to, not to dis Bonaire, but it's, um, it's such a dive destination, but if you want more kind of, uh, varied options of things to do, you might consider Curacao, which is the next Island over a very, just a short hop over, uh, from Bonaire. And, and there are definitely, I think even more direct flights to Curacao, depending on where you live.  Um, it's a similar feel. It's, it's also a Dutch Caribbean Island. Um, you know, kind of the architecture is similar and, and that sort of thing, but it's, uh, Willemstad, which is the main city. There's a bigger city. They're just more eating and shopping options. The landscape is a little more varied. Um, you know, equally good diving and snorkeling options if, if you want to, uh, to do that. Um, but, but I think there are a few more beaches, just, there's a little bit more to do their, uh, top side.  But, you know, certainly I'm not going to disagree with anyone's choice to go to Bonaire. I think, you know, if, if you want to take up diving, it's a wonderful place to learn, uh, whether you or, or your kids or whatever. I mean, I think I can think of no better place to just do a bunch of easy diving, whether you're going from a boat or off the beach. Um, there, there's some interesting history there. Some, you know, an old lighthouse, um, some kind of, uh, bleak remains of the colonial, uh, past, uh, that you can, you can check out and some good wildlife, a lot of wild donkeys and goats and flamingos. And, um, but, uh, yeah, I, I would say, um, you know, rather than give very specific details, I've, I've, I've advised a lot of people on Bonaire and if you want to, you know, drop me an email, you can, you can just write to the graynado at gmail.com and I'd be happy to paste in some, some, uh, tips on, you know, places to eat or places to dive and that sort of thing. |
|James Stacey|Uh, best place for, uh, uh, Iguana stew. Ooh. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. |
|Unknown|That would be a tip on what to avoid. |
|Jason Heaton|But, uh, anyway, uh, good, good choice, David. I think, you know, Bonaire, um, is, is clearly one of my favorite places and, uh, highly recommended. So, uh, thanks for the question.  Next up, we've got a question from Felix who's planning a very long trail run and wants to know which watch to take. |
|Felix|Hi, James and Jason. It's Felix from the High French Alps. Now, depending on when this goes out, I'm either just about to embark on or I've just got back from a 330-kilometer trail run along one of our local rivers from the source up here in the mountains to where the river flows out into the Rhône in Avignon in the southeast of France. Now, I'm going to take four or five days to do this.  I'm camping out each night. I might take one of my dogs with me for some company. But you know the question that's coming up. I've decided which watch I'm taking. What I want to know is from your current collections, which watch would you take on this type of adventure, a 330 kilometer trail run along a river in the French Alps? Now, the only rules are no digital watches, no GPS watches, no smart watches. So basic analog watches can be quartz, can be automatic.  And that's question one. And question two, if you could choose any watch available, which watch would you take with the same three rules? If anyone wants to follow my escapades on this crazy little adventure, you can get me on Instagram at the fasting for fitness club or search fasting for fitness on YouTube. And you can see, uh, you can see what I'm up to. I hope I'll make it. Or if you're listening to this, once I've got back, I have made it, um, keep up the good work guys, really loving the show and great to know they're going to be weekly.  Cheers. Bye. |
|Jason Heaton|What a bonkers escapade you've got going there, Felix. And the short answer is I will not be doing that run anytime soon, personally. James, what's your take on this? You're more of a runner than me. Which watch of your own would you take? |
|James Stacey|My inclination personally would be towards a digital watch of some sort. But I think without it would be something like the Aerospace, which isn't in my personal collection these days, but is light and very easy to read.  and has the ability to do things like the chronograph and the rest, but maybe that breaks the rules being digital. So I would say probably something like the SPB or just a simple, like any reliable, non-fussy, not too heavy automatic. At a certain point, like for that task, I wouldn't even, it's not, I wouldn't be on my radar to pick a watch necessarily. You know, I think a C4 would be great for that.  Um, uh, SPB, uh, uh, you know, something with good loom is going to be important. You know, that can be helpful if you're moving around and dealing with at night and then maybe the importance of, of timing when you leave and when you go to bed and those sorts of things. So I think that's where I would land. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Any, uh, dream choice in terms of anything that's out there currently available? |
|Unknown|Hmm. |
|James Stacey|I don't know. I'm just trying to think of like what, what, what would kind of suit the suit, the task, maybe, uh, uh, like something, something in titanium, I suppose. Mm.  Yeah. I think the other one that would be really good for this would be like a marathon navigator. |
|Unknown|Oh, yeah. |
|James Stacey|Good idea. It's not really a dream choice. That's a watch that's a few hundred dollars. Yeah. But a nylon case doesn't weigh anything, a useful bezel. Of course, it has the tritium tube bloom, so that's gonna be great. I think that's probably where I would land, something like that. Yeah. Not really the task where I would take a dream watch either. Yeah, yeah.  Richard meal. How about you? Oh, yeah, there you go. All right. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, it's not gonna weigh that much. Yeah, yeah, it might be a little hard to read as you're jouncing up and down looking at your wrist, but it would certainly hold up and be nice and light. Current collection. Boy, that's tough. You know, I was I was gonna say, you know, light. It sits close to the wrist with a really good rubber strap that doesn't chafe. I think a NATO can kind of come loose as you, as you run a lot and it could probably flop around a little bit. The one that I've had, you know, over the past couple of months, the Elliott Brown Holton is a nice feel on the wrist. You know, it's, it's a little bit subjective, you know, it'll wear on everybody's wrist differently. But even though it's a steel watch and not ultra light, it wears tight to the wrist and it's got just a superb rubber strap.  Um, but then again, and lately I've been wearing my, my Hodinkee Blancpain and it's, it's just a small, slim watch and it just kind of is very unobtrusive. Um, I'm not sure how useful it would be on a, on a, on a very long trail run. It'd be more of just a companion, I guess. And just to check the time of the day, but maybe the dream choice, if I'm going to skip Richard meal would be this, uh, I haven't actually handled one, but the, the Breitling endurance, which I think they kind of made with this sort of thing in mind.  which is a quartz, like a super quartz, thermal compensated quartz chronograph in a, I think that's like a composite case. So it's very light comes in a rubber strap. So you could, you could wear that. I think the chronograph is a 12 hour chronograph. So you could, uh, you could time your, your running with that. So, you know, I guess that would be the, that'd be the way I go. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And Felix, we hope you made it back or maybe you're underway or maybe you haven't left yet, but whatever, how, whatever point in this journey we are, you know, I hope the 330 K is fun. I hope your dog enjoys it.  And I hope whichever watch you did choose, you didn't let us know what, but maybe drop us an email or throw a comment on the show and the sub stack and let everyone know what watch you did end up taking and how the run was. We'd love to hear and we'll certainly follow up on the accounts that you had mentioned. Next up, we've got one from Chris about the difference between mechanical and quartz accuracy. |
|Chris|Hello, James and Jason. This is Chris in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.  I'm a new listener to the GrayNATO, but I have been going back and listening to some of the older episodes also. A question that I have that you two may be able to help me with is that I would like to have a nicer automatic watch someday, you know, maybe a Doxa or an Oris or one of the many brands you discuss. My concern is that the accuracy of those is not equal to that of a quartz watch. How can I get over that hurdle of expecting an automatic watch to be a perfect timekeeper and just learn to enjoy it and spend the extra money to get a better watch that may not keep as good a time as my cheap quartz watch. Thanks. |
|James Stacey|Hey, Chris, that's an interesting question. And my gut says you got to move how you move. If like a mechanical watch, if the accuracy is important to the extent that the delta between a simple quartz watch, which, you know, that's seconds a month typically. And then a mechanical watch, which could be, you know, maybe five to say 30 seconds a day in either direction, preferably you would want it less than the 30, but five was, is pretty good performance. But of course, if you multiply that across an entire month, that's a, an order of magnitude, um, between kind of the two, uh, options there. And if it's just not something where the mechanical is going to appeal to you, I wouldn't fight it. Enjoy quartz. There's nothing wrong with it.  You might even save some money in this effort. But if you do want to go the mechanical route, I would say look into companies that put accuracy forward. So Omega and Grand Seiko come to mind. You could even go Spring Drive, which gives you sort of a hybrid system between a mechanical and a quartz system. And then with Omega, you're getting METIS certification, excellent timekeeping, good magnetic resistance, all that kind of stuff. And I think that would allow you to at least hedge your bets.  as far as spending the extra money on a luxury mechanical timepiece, but still getting what would be considered very good accuracy within the world of a mechanical watch. That makes sense to you, Jason? |
|Jason Heaton|It does. And I think, you know, I've had pretty good luck with a lot of my automatics. And one of the things is that I wear watches, and this might be different for you, Chris, but I wear watches in a rotation where you know, where a certain watch for maybe a week max, and then I'll switch to a different watch, which means I'm taking the one off, setting it aside, it runs down and I'm wearing a different one for a few days. But then when I pick up the other one, I got to rewind it and reset it anyway. So the accuracy over the longterm is a bit of a moot point. Um, but I also feel, you know, if you get a watch that is rated or, or, or claims to come close to chronometer certification, which is a minus four plus six seconds per 24 hours, I'd read this a long time ago that even that amount of drift over 24 hours is still, if you look at the total seconds in a day, that's still 99.995% accurate. So we're talking really good accuracy from something that is running on a wound spring that's releasing its energy through, you know, a series of gears and springs. And I think that is something that it's like a mental shift. I think you, you have to embrace the fact that this is something that is entirely mechanical that is still able to achieve this incredible accuracy without a, you know, printed circuit board or a battery. Um, and I, I think that's kind of where I'm at. I don't, I'm not a huge kind of accuracy fiend, you know, I'm, I'm not that focused on that, but, uh, I do appreciate the fact that, that these watches are able to come pretty darn close. Um, despite the fact that they're entirely, uh, mechanical, I think.  You know, you kind of buy it for other reasons than strictly hoping that it's exactly right all the time. And like James said, I think, you know, if that is truly important to you that your watch is always kind of as close as possible, then quartz is the way to go. And maybe if you want to go high end, you go with like a Grand Seiko quartz or something that's like hyper accurate. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, that's a great point as well. But yeah, thanks so much for that question, Chris, and for finding the show. We're absolutely thrilled to have you on as a listener.  And again, thank you so much for sending in a question. We appreciate it very much. All right. So next up, let's get to a birth year watches question from Dave. |
|Dave|Good morning, guys. This is Dave from Atlanta, Georgia. And I wanted to ask you about your thoughts or opinions on birth year watches. A birth year watch for me would be a watch manufactured in 1969. And I have kind of narrowed my thoughts down to about one of two watches.  One of them would be a Bulova Devil Diver, the other would be a Seiko 6139 Chronograph, both of which I suspect I could get a decent example in the range of $1,000 plus or minus. I'm leaning towards the Seiko because I like the heritage and the story behind this particular model, particularly related to Seiko's presumably first to market of the automatic chronograph of the three the three manufacturers that were pushing for that in late 1969. But I'm just kind of curious about your thoughts. And if it matters any, the the chronograph that I would go for would be the blue faced 6139, not the more iconic yellow faced. So appreciate your thoughts. And as always, also appreciate the the very good content. Thanks in advance. Bye|
|Jason Heaton| Good question, Dave. Thanks for submitting it. I'm going Seiko 100%. I think I love the Devil Diver. I think those are cool watches. But if you're going for a birth year and your birth year happens to be the year that the first automatic chronograph was released, I think that's the way to go. I think it's a great story. I think that's just an iconic and underrated watch in terms of what its value continues to hold fairly affordably.  you know, certainly it's a subjective choice. I think you're leaning Seiko a little bit too, but if, if I were held to, to make a choice, uh, I would also go Seiko. And I think the blue dial is a fantastic, uh, fantastic option. Very versatile look would look great on a leather strap, or if you can find one of those original H link bracelets, uh, all the better. So good luck with that. And, uh, and, uh, yeah, enjoy the watch, whatever you get. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, I absolutely agree. I literally have nothing to add. That's the perfect case. I would go with the Seiko. I think the blue dial is, Super cool. I think that watch is an amazing birth year watch and also just a cool piece of 1969. So I think it works for that date in more ways than one. It's not just an arbitrary play at the year because of when you were born. So yeah, best of luck finding one. I think they're sweet and my guess is you'll absolutely love it. So thanks so much for that question and do enjoy the watch. Next up, we have a question from Nate.  about servicing your own watch. |
|Nate|Hey, James and Jason, this is Nate from Ann Arbor, Michigan. I wanted to ask a question today about watch servicing and particularly about doing one's own watch service or repair. I got a turtle secondhand and it was running between 30 and 40 seconds behind per day. And while that didn't bother me, I did decide I would try to regulate it myself. I'm not wanting to spend a couple hundred dollars to get it serviced.  And thankfully, I was successful after a false start, the watch is running really well now. But I'm curious if either of you have taken on low level service. And if not, why? I'm curious to hear your thoughts. Take care. |
|James Stacey|Hey, Nate. Interesting question. You know, I've I've messed around with servicing some of my own watches. And in your case, is a similar scenario where the watch was kind of reliably running, I think too fast, but it was fast in almost any position, including on my wrist.  And it was just an older dive watch that I had, a Seiko, and I opened it up and just regulated it down and I made it quite slow as you do. And I didn't have a proper timing machine. So it was this kind of process of like making an adjustment, kind of giving it a good shake and bake until it had some power reserve and then making some notes with photos, comparing a time, a synchronized time in the display time on the watch and going back and forth I would say I got it a little bit better. It wasn't running as aggressively fast. I wouldn't say it was well-regulated, where it was predictable across five positions. I absolutely think that given the fact that you don't need a lot of space to service a watch, and that if you're dealing with something like a Seiko, the movements are available, the stakes are pretty low. If you're keen to do that kind of stuff with your hands and have the fine motor control and can invest a little bit of money into the tools, I think it's probably a pretty good thing to learn. And then, of course, you can find courses online, you can buy books. I'll attach a couple of the books that I'm aware of in the show notes that kind of walk you through basic functionality and servicing. And yeah, I'm all for it. I've messed around with it a couple of times. At this point, it would be something almost like a time sink to go that route.  And I'm not against it. It's just a question of how much time I might have to put into doing something that I could send to someone and know that they would do it correctly the first time. And I would say in some ways, it also comes down to how much I intend to wear the watch. If it's something I might only wear occasionally, then I might do a little adjustment and then wear it the 10 times a year, five times a year that I might put that watch on. But if it's my day-to-day watch, I would like that watch to be kind of tip top. And I don't think my skills are tip top. So I think that's how that works. |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah, I, um, I agree. I mean, I think also there's, there's more to servicing a watch than the average kind of shade tree mechanic, uh, might know about. I know that, you know, regulating is one thing, you know, and I've, I've dabbled a bit in that unsuccessfully largely, but, uh, you know, you take the back off, you give that little screw a twist and then you retime it and that sort of thing. But, you know, a proper, you know, trained watchmaker will tell you that that's kind of the end of the train when it comes to all that goes into a watch is timing. You know, we're talking about gears and lubrication and all of this stuff that, that, that plays into the accuracy of a watch. And so, um, if you're truly servicing a watch, that would mean disassembling it, cleaning the parts, reassembling, replacing worn parts and lubricating and then regulating. And that is something I will never, I will never do. And then of course, replacing gaskets. Um, that said, I, I took a pocket watch, a three day pocket watch course, servicing course many years ago and flew out to Pennsylvania and went to Lancaster to do that. And, you know, I, I bought all the tools of the, um, the timezone.com used to do a watchmaking school. They might still do that. And they, they sell a kit, the basic kit. Um, and I believe it even came with a little pocket watch and I still have that and you can sit and take it apart and put it together. And, um, there's like a printed, you know, little booklet that you can just follow along. It's, it's actually quite fun. I think, As James said, you know, the stakes are pretty low if you're going with an inexpensive watch, maybe that you're not relying on or that you'll not be heartbroken if you screw it up. And, uh, in that case, I think it's fun. I think it's a great way to kind of appreciate mechanical watches and, and learn more about how they work. So, um, it all kind of depends on your level of ambition and risk taking and, and, uh, budget, I suppose, too. So yeah, let us know. |
|James Stacey| Yeah. That'd be really cool. A fantastic winter task as well. Definitely. Yeah. That's so true. Buy a book, buy the watch, buy a couple of tools and just kind of get to business. I love that. Yeah. And see, the other thing is, you know, there's a few flea markets in my area. I'm actually planning to do a story on this for Houdinki that sell like old watches by the bag. Oh, wow. Yeah. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|And they're just like, I'm going to buy a bag for $50 or whatever it is, and then see if I made money or lost money.  But I mean, that'd probably be a good way to do that. And you'd end up with ones. And once you kind of knew what the movement was, especially hand-wound movements, the complexity goes down a little bit. So that can be helpful too in dealing with it. So Nate, good luck on that journey. And if you end up heading your way to woe step, best of luck with your new career in servicing watches. That's fantastic.  Yeah. Next up, we've got one from Kieran about a summer watch to celebrate both a new kid and a new job. Two big moves. |
|Kieran|Hey, James and Jason, this is Kieran calling from London. First of all, I just want to thank you for all the pause you put out over the years, particularly the effort that you put in during this ongoing pandemic. It's been a real lifeline for me and I'm sure a lot of others to still have these wishful thinkings about road trips and gear that we will hopefully get to use again. My question to you is, I'm in the market for a new watch. I've had my first child this year, a little girl, and I have just switched careers into teaching, which is a big change and I want to market with a new watch. Currently, My everyday kind of watches, I have a Tudor Black Bay and a Seiko SKX009. I kind of want just a fun summer watch, which both of those are, but hey, here we are. At the minute, I am kind of debating between a Doxus Sub 300T Professional because I love the orange. I love that 70s kind of vibe. Just looks like a really fun watch. Do anything.  And I'm kind of torn between that and a CWC Mallory issue, which I know Jason has written a lot about. Yeah, anything else that you would throw out there? A date function is really handy, particularly as a teacher, and I like having the bezel timer just so I can keep track of little things during the day, which are the only things that are counting across the CWC. But yeah, thanks again for all you do.  And take care. |
|Jason Heaton|Bye. Hey, Karen. Thanks for the question and congrats on all your recent life changes. That's awesome. I kind of feel like you've answered your own question on this one. You know, you mentioned the date function and a timing bezel and kind of a good summer watch. And I mean, you can't do better than a Doxa, I think, especially if you like the orange dial and you've got water resistance to burn.  You've got the date, screw down crown. They're just super rugged. They wear really nicely on the wrist, no matter what size wrist you have, really, you know, I have a longstanding love for CWC and all their watches. And the Malora is a cool watch, but the Doxa is, um, uh, definitely a, just a higher quality watch. It's just a, it's just a better, better watch for one thing. The CWC is quite tiny. It's hand wound. There's no date.  uh it's got an acrylic crystal so you know chances are it's gonna get dinged up it just feels like a slightly more fragile watch which is ironic because it was a you know army issue field watch but i just feel like in this case you got to go doxa and i you know you asked if we have any other ideas and i feel like for what you're describing kind of a rugged summer colorful watch with a date and and a timing bezel you'd be hard pressed to to find anything besides uh a Doxa. I mean, you already have a Seiko. So, you know, I'd skip Seiko this time around, but James, do you have any, any alternatives besides those? |
|James Stacey|Yeah. You know, the thing that strikes me is he's got two dive watches already. So maybe not a dive watch, uh, you know, maybe look at a, a Hallios, uh, Universa, uh, which, you know, would give you a nice summery sports watch. You can get one with the pastel dial, uh, gives you a very much a summer vibe.  Um, the fair wind of course can be optioned with a different bezel than a dive bezel. So maybe that could be more of a travel watch. Um, and then of course the other one to consider, and I'm an absolutely massive fan of this watch. I'll even include my own right up in the show notes is the Astor and Banks fortitude. Oh yeah. So it's just a really, really gorgeous and you can get a colorful, like a mint green dial. Imagine a dive watch with no dive bezel. Basically it's a nicely sized, super legible date at six.  really nicely made, nicely finished, great bracelet. And you're not, you're not spending anywhere near docs and money on either of these options. These are well under a thousand dollars for the, for the fortitude, um, a really, really good option. And then the last one is, is, you know, if you're depending on where you are with your SKX, maybe, maybe combine the move and not end up with three dive watches and flip an SKX for an SPB.  Oh, yeah. You know, sell one or sell to a friend or give it to a relative or whatever position you may be in and then kind of jump up and try out an SPB. But honestly, if you have the Black Bay, the SPB is a little bit redundant, as is the SKX, to be fair. I'm not saying don't have both. Everybody's got too many dive watches. Right. But if we're talking about advice, you know, at a certain point, you'll end up with a lot of dive watches.  So yeah, my money might lean towards something like the Mint Dial Fortitude, a pastel dial from Hallios. But also, hey, I'm not going to talk you out of a Doxa. They're rad. And they're a singular thing. Yeah. It's one thing to say you might have too many dive watches if you end up with three watches and they're all dive watches within two millimeters of each other. But a Doxa is its own thing entirely. So if that's what your heart wants, get the Doxa. It's not going to let you down. They're nicely made, they're super fun, and they're super specific in their appeal.  so they won't feel like either of your other dive watches. So, yeah, enjoy that. And like Jason said, congrats on all the big moves. Sounds like things are going well for you. And we, in our part, are quite happy for you and appreciate the question. Next up, we've got one from Russell about mountaineering watches. |
|Russell|Hello, James and Jason. This is Russell from Seattle. I'm looking for a replacement for my Suunto Ambit 3 Vertical. My passion is hiking and mountaineering. And while I love my Polar 16570, I need something with a few more features. The replacement needs to have an altimeter, both barometric and GPS, and the ability to program a route, for instance, waypoints on the Muir snowfield for poor visibility days. And I like a heart rate monitor. So here's my questions. I've always looked at tech as kind of a rental. You never really own it in a permanent sense, because after five years or so, it's going to start getting kind of glitchy.  So that's true. Why buy the fancy Garmin Sapphire? Do you guys think that my perception of tech is true? And then my other question is, is my Suunto uses a chest strap for the heart rate monitor, which I'm fine with. How tight do you have to wear a watch with a wrist heart rate monitor? And I ask because I don't particularly care for tight watches. Anyhow, thanks for the great podcast. Jason loved the book and hope to hear an answer. Thank you. |
|Jason Heaton| Thanks, Russell. Good question. You know, I feel like with these technology watches, with these connected watches, James and I are both diehard kind of Garmin folks these days. And I feel like you sort of buy into that ecosystem with the app and the watch. In our cases, we have several Garmin's each. So I can't really have a basis for comparison. I used to be more of a Suunto guy, but now I don't kind of know what their current range is these days.  I can't say enough good things about the Garmin, like the Phoenix, for instance, the Phoenix six that I have, I wear it, I put it on to go cycling or kayaking or, or hiking or whatever. And then I take it off when I'm done and I'm okay with that. I think they're fantastic. I would say with regard to your question about heart rate monitor, I have had some glitchy issues with the wrist heart rate sensor on mine, particularly when I'm cross country skiing. And I don't know if it's because I'm gripping poles and kind of squeezing as I'm pushing off at the poles. Maybe it's something with the muscles in my forearm that are kind of messing with the optical sensor there. But other than that, it works great for biking and other stuff that I do. So I don't wear mine particularly tight. I also don't like a really tight watch. And if you do still like the chest strap, Garmin sells a chest strap that you can sync with the watch as well. But I think the Fenix, James, correct me if I'm wrong, will do everything he wants. Waypoints, altimeter, it has a barometric and a GPS altimeter.  Uh, of course the heart rate sensor as well as all the other stuff. And, uh, so that would be my vote. |
|James Stacey|I mean, I think for what you want, you could even go with an instinct. Um, and depending on how, how far out into the middle of nowhere you're going, you might be better off with an instinct or, or a platform that connects with the inReach mini. Yeah. Might actually end up bringing you up to the price of a descent or, or a well-featured Phoenix. Um, Yeah, I don't follow Suunto. I've kind of, like Jason said, kind of found a solution in Garmin that has never let me down. So I didn't really look around. I owned two Suuntos back in the day. I had a Core, two versions of the Core. And I have lots of experience with them, but not once they hit the GPS in the connected world. For that, you know, I would say that while I agree that tech gets outdated quickly because it's tech, I still have a Fenix 3.  that I loan to people when they're curious about the Garmin platform because it still does all of its things. It doesn't have the same features as a six or a descent, but everything that it says that it does still works today. And the accuracy is not different for a lot of it. So I would say maybe do a deep dive into the Garmin lineup and find the one that suits you. If you have the money for the Phoenix, that's the one to buy for sure. And then obviously they have all sorts of forerunner models that are more for running and then some general models like the Venue, and then you have the Instinct kind of below the Phoenix. So there's a lot of range there. What I would say about the tightness on your wrist is you don't have to wear the watch tight. I actually haven't had the problem that Jason mentioned, but I don't cross-country ski, but biking, swimming, running, all sorts of sports, really. Lots of hiking and covered in sweat. The heart rate monitors never let me down. And I have the Descent on currently.  And it's, um, it's, it would be as loose as any of my watches, probably more loose than how I wear a NATO because I like the watch to stay at a certain place on my wrist when I'm wearing a NATO. Um, so I haven't had any issue with, uh, with them having to be tighter because of the, the heart rate monitor. They seem very accurate or very consistent in being able to pick up as long as they're against your skin in some way. And then like Jason said, you can very easily, especially if you want, you know, very reliable heart rating.  um, you do so with, with the chest strap. So that's not a bad option either. And it's just one of their a and T plus sort of, uh, connected devices. There's a whole world of those both from Garmin and from other suppliers that use the same protocols. So that's something to, to consider. Um, but definitely don't, don't cross off the instinct until you've kind of hit, checked your own checklist of, of options. Um, because you might not even require, you know, bumping up as high as a Phoenix, which If you're on a really long trip, we'll need to be charged and stuff like that. Whereas the instinct, you can go solar, you can go, you can have a little bit more flexibility in terms of how it's powered and how long that power is going to work for you and that kind of thing. So that's what I recommend, but Russell, I hope you have some great adventures with whatever you, uh, with whatever you choose. And if you do end up getting, uh, getting the instinct and have some feedback from your side, drop us an email. I'd love to hear more about how these, uh, how these are getting used out in the world. Uh, next up, we've got a, uh, a question about dive watches from Andrew. |
|Andrew| Hey, James and Jason, this is Andrew from Denver by way of San Diego. Big fan of the show. Got two questions for you guys. First, what would be your ideal dive watch that you would take with you on a blue water dive trip based off of functionality? I think we all know dive watches have become obsolete over the years with the emergence of dive computers. However, my dad recently just gifted me a Doxa Sub 300 Shark Hunter Edition which has the depth on the bezel, which you can use to help plan your bottom time and deco stops. And I actually find myself wanting to give that a shot on my next dive trip and kind of bring it back to the old days. Um, so yeah, basically what would be your ideal dive watch based off functionality that you would bring on a trip? And second, this is to Jason. Um, if depth charge were to be made into a movie, who would you cast in the roles of Tusker and Sam?  I'm very interested to hear this answer. But anyways, thanks, guys. Appreciate all you do. And hit me up if you ever need a dive buddy. Cheers. |
|Jason Heaton|Well, thanks for the question, Andrew. I'll jump in here first off. And in terms of depth charge actors, I'll take the second part first. I've got to convince James Stacy to take the lead role. I think he'd make a great Tusker. |
|James Stacey| Oh yeah, for sure. Who would you have play Sam? |
|Jason Heaton|Sam, you know, I keep picturing Freda Pinto. She's not Sri Lankan. She's Indian, of course, but she's a good pick. And she's actually married to a guy, I can't remember his name. I think it's Corey Tran. He's a really talented outdoor photographer and adventurer. And they kind of make a good couple. I can almost picture both of them in those roles. But I think, you know, jokes aside, I kind of have Bradley Cooper in mind for, for Tusker. I don't know if he's getting a little, a little too old for that role. I don't know, but he has that kind of look that, that I envision. Um, but, uh, you know, I'm open for offers. So Andrew, if you're, if you're a budding actor and you're, you're up for the role, we can, we can talk. Yeah. |
|James Stacey|I, uh, if, if I can, I want to jump in on this cause I had some, I had some ideas in my mind. I think Tusker could be Jake Gyllenhaal. Oh yeah. Uh, who always does a beautiful job in the, the, what I like about, Gyllenhaal even more than Bradley Cooper is that, um, I don't know what it is about Cooper, but I have trouble like forgetting that he's Bradley Cooper. Oh yeah. Whereas with Gyllenhaal, like I just watched Nightcrawler the other night and that's like the creepiest, scuzziest role played by a big name actor in a long time. Really? And, and it's, he just disappears. Like after about five minutes, you're not looking at Jake Gyllenhaal, you're just looking at Nightcrawler guy. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey| Yeah. Uh, this, you know, Lewis or Lou or whatever his name is. He does tension well too. He does that. Oh, absolutely. He has that. I think, and I think he has a little bit of the, I don't actually know where he grew up. I, I, it doesn't, but I think he could do the, the Midwest Michigan thing. Yeah. Pretty well. Um, and then I, I, you know, the, the, the Sam line would be a little bit difficult, but I think like Zoe Saldana would be kind of the right age. |
|Jason Heaton|Oh yeah. |
|James Stacey|And, uh, and, and she does a good job. And I think that, I think that, she would kind of work in there. Um, and then there's, that's a, that's a fun, but there's, it'd be fun to try and do the entire, like, there's a pretty good group of people that could be represented from different parts of the world in, in that, in the, in the character lists. Um, but yeah, I think, uh, I think, yeah, I would, I would, I would at least want to talk to Joan Hall's people and see if he was available first, you know, a reading or something like that. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, definitely.  All right. Onto the dive watch part of the question. Awesome. What a great gift. A sub 300 T. Wonderful watch. And you know, the first time you take a docks, a diving, you never forget. I mean, it's, it's just such a, so at home underwater just looks so great on the wrist. I would say that the, the no deco scale on the, on the bezel is it's still useful only for your first dive. Cause once you get into repetitive diving, those, those no deco limits change.  Um, but still, you know, fun, fun dive watch to, to take diving. I feel that, you know, most dive watches these days do a perfectly good job. I mean, I think they have since the 1950s and sixties, they're, they're waterproof. They have a good bezel and good legibility and they don't leak. And I think that's what you need. But I feel like there's a sweet spot with dive watches that, you know, nowadays, if you can get a watch, that's kind of cheap enough to, to afford.  Um, but it's not too precious that you care too much about it, not to do stuff with. Um, you find one in that sweet spot and that depends on everybody's budget, but that's what a dive watch should be because this isn't so much about tracking bottom time or decompression stops or anything like that. This is about. You know, going anywhere, doing whatever you want, not worrying about your watch and then being able to wear it back home and look at it when you're sitting at your desk board the next week and say, ah, This thing was just down at the, on the reef last week. You know, that, that's the most important thing, uh, nowadays with the dive watch, that's not a specific dive watch. It's whichever one you choose. And, but I think you've got a good one there in the doc. |
|James Stacey|So, yeah, I would add, uh, you know, yeah, if you're asking like what dive watch any, almost any dive watch now we'll, we'll do their casual dive a really well, their feature set doesn't change wildly until you get to the quality of things like the bezel, the bracelet, the straps, that sort of thing.  So, I mean, a peak for me is still Pelagos. If you want to buy, like, the modern expression of the watch that people were... of the goals that people set forth in, say, 1953 with dive watches, it's the Pelagos. It's light. It can be worn all the time. It's very straightforward in its use. The lume is excellent. The legibility is ridiculous. The bracelet's incredible. And then if, for whatever reason, you don't want the bracelet, the rubber is also incredible. Like, maybe the best bracelet in the world, and then one of the best rubbers.  options out there, too. So I'd be deep on the Pelagos. You absolutely cannot go wrong with Doxa. Just two entirely different ways of doing the same task in terms of aesthetics. I think the Pelagos makes more sense as a mechanical backup to a dive watch today because the bezel is the simple elapsed time bezel. The Doxa is a little bit more of a throwback in that it's trying to do some dive computer ability.  Unless you're planning on foregoing the dive computer, which is outside the realm of my dive skills. I would say almost any dive watch is going to do it for sure. Yeah. But the, the docs, it might be more fun than all of them. |
|Jason Heaton|Can I ask you a question? Why, why, why don't either of us, or why doesn't, why don't both of us have a Pelagos? |
|James Stacey|I mean, they don't make a GMT. |
|Jason Heaton|It comes up every show we talk about Pelagos is the, and I, you know, I could totally see like the left-hand drive, the LHD one on my wrist right now. And I would, I'd probably wear it nonstop. I mean, it's just the perfect, perfect watch. Yeah. That's, that's, yeah. |
|James Stacey|For me, I, I, yeah, I would go, I would go to a Pelagos if I consolidated some of my dive watches. Yeah. I don't need another dive watch today. And to add the best one as the fifth option in my lineup is kind of a weird move. Yeah. So I would either need to kind of step away from like sell off a bunch and then buy a Pelagos, which I think is a great option. Yeah. Um, but there is this thing and this comes up on the show pretty frequently, but there's this thing in the back of my mind that at any moment, They could do a Pelagos 58, where it'd be 39 millimeters, and I would like it even more. And there's nothing wrong with the 41, but for me, the 39 would be better. Or they would do a GMT, because the Pelagos is a 41 millimeter case, and the BB GMT is a 41 millimeter case, so conceivably, the movements would drop in. And In my... If I can put this out into the world, I'm gonna secret this out or whatever that book was called a few years back, where you imagine things you want and then they show up. In my mind, the ideal would be the same format as the Bremont 302, where it still has a dive bezel. |
|Unknown|Yeah, yeah. |
|James Stacey|And it has an internal 24 hour indication, because I don't wanna give up... I don't want the Pelagos to become a travel watch, I want it to be a dive watch with some travel function. |
|Unknown|Yeah, yeah. |
|James Stacey| And imagine, you know, imagine if you will, if you can, you know, kind of have a fun time with this, just imagine having a 39 millimeter titanium Pelagos with all the same features that you have now and a dive bezel and an internal GMT. I would liquidate all my dive watches for that. Yeah. Yeah. It would be like arguably perfect watch. So it's that, that for me, the reason I don't have a Pelagos is because that's on the on the horizon, I believe at some level. Um, and, and maybe I'm crazy. I have no evidence to support this. We have people at tutor who do occasionally listen to the show and they've never said anything to me that would suggest this is coming. And I'm not putting words in their mouth. I'm saying them with mine, but that's what, that's why I don't have a Pelagos. I would absolutely love to see one that was essentially just peak dive, peak modern dive watch. Yeah. Give me a great dive watch. And then an internalized 24 hour scale. Yeah. Yeah.  be so fun. Yeah. Uh, yeah, yeah. Enjoy your diving, Andrew. And, uh, hopefully you, uh, get a chance to put the, uh, the doxa to good use under and above the water. Uh, and then of course, uh, we may have to send you some sort of paperwork about, um, whatever comes of the, the, uh, depth charge movie, some, some NDAs and some other stuff. We'll, we'll, we'll, we'll cross that path somewhere in the future. Uh, next up we have one from Paul about GMTs. |
|Paul| Hey Jason and James, this is Paul from Washington State. As things are starting to open up, I'm looking to travel some more and I think I'm finally in the market to get a GMT watch. I'm looking to spend under $5,000 and I've been looking at either the Tudor or the Bremont. Any other brands that you would recommend in the sub $5,000 range? Looking for what I would call a medium size.  watch probably nothing bigger than 42 millimeters. Thanks a lot. Enjoy your work. |
|Jason Heaton|I will just jump in Paul and say, I'm going to let James take this one for the most part, but I think the Tudor, the Braymon are great choices. I think I would lean towards Tudor just because of the functionality, but James, I bet you have some other options up your sleeve. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. So under $5,000 for a GMT, you have some options, but you really have to decide if what you want is a travel watch, which I think is from your question, that is what you want. Or if you want a dive watch that can travel, right? Cause you have GMT divers. I made this distinction. It is kind of a silly distinction within the, um, within the world of watches. But I really love the fact that if you look at GMTs, there's like 20 or 30 ways to solve the travel problem. And they're all specific to how you want to measure another time zone.  And it's one of the reasons I love these watches so much, GMT watches in general, travel watches. It's a subtle difference, but in my opinion, it's a huge difference in intent between the BB GMT and the Bremont S302. And one, the Bremont is a dive watch that has the travel feature. This is like we talked about in the previous question, and I wrote about in my 302 write-up. And then the Tudor is a proper travel watch. It's like a GMT Master, but made by Tudor. And it's meant for tracking you know, at least two, possibly three time zones, depending on how you decide to do the math. So you just have to kind of pick along those lines. They're both really well-made. The Tudor has a movement that's going to have to be serviced by Tudor. If that bothers you, then, you know, it's just something to know in advance, whereas the, the Bremont movement isn't at a caliber. Uh, so it might be a little bit easier to deal with things like servicing down the road with the Bremont, but there might be scenarios in which it also has to go back to, uh, the, you know, the, the wing outside of London.  for service. So those are worth considering when you're buying a new watch, especially when you're considering a budget that's a lot, $5,000 is a ton of money. But in the watch world, it's not, sadly. I do think you can get a ton of watch from either of these. The other ones to consider would be you could look at the Mido Ocean Star GMT. They're going to be a bit bigger than you wanted. And my hopes are that they offer a smaller version in the future. And then The final option is you could find a watch that has a 12-hour bezel and bring your price range way down. The functionality just takes a little bit of mental math to figure it out, but once you've got it set, it's very passive and it doesn't add any complexity or typically any cost to the watch or the movement or the servicing or the rest of it. But if you're really trying to decide between the Bremont and the Tudor, decide if what you want is a local jumping travel watch, go buy the Tudor, If you want a dive watch that also does a great job at tracking a second time zone, although not with the finesse of a local jumping movement, go with the Bremen. I don't think you can really go wrong with either. They're both just like some of my favorite watches. So you're already onto a pretty good list there. |
|Jason Heaton|All right. Thanks, Paul, for the question. Next up, we have a question from Lars who wants to talk about Swiss versus Japanese watches. |
|Lars|Hello, Jason and James. Lars here from Germany.  Thank you for everything you're doing and being the rock of sanity in this ever more crazy watch world. I've got two questions for you. What do you think is the difference between the Swiss and the Japanese watch brands or watch industry for that matter? In the online community, this question is often wiped away as comparing apples to oranges, but I think this is too easy an answer. Seiko, for example, makes an excellent product, whereas many Swiss brands seem to live to a large extent of the fame of the old days.  That being said, and all things like the one watch guy, the heirloom piece and the tool watch considered, which do you think is the better watch and why? The Tudor Black Bay 58 or the Seiko SPB 143? I know they come at totally different price points, but considering the higher marketing costs, the more exclusive distribution system and the probably artificially limited production numbers of the Tudor, I think they might be closer than it appears at first sight.  looking at things like ruggedness, precision, and everyday wearability, which one wins as the one everyday travel and adventure watch. Thank you very much and keep up the great work. Bye. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks for the question, Lars. James, I'll just give some brief thoughts on the first half of his question, but I think you have more experience with the two watches that he mentioned. You know, I couldn't agree with you more, Lars. I think the big difference in my mind between Swiss and Japanese brands, specifically Seiko in this case and Swiss brands is There feels, it feels like there's a little more, uh, humility, I guess I'd say when it comes to Japanese brands, I feel like they're a little more eager to please a little more humble. Um, there's, there's less pretension, more focus on, on quality and kind of pride of, of workmanship. Whereas, uh, as you mentioned the, the Swiss do tend to look back at history a lot and kind of in some cases sort of rely on that for, for reputation. Um, you know, as long as most people listening and probably their parents and grandparents can remember, you know, the, to say that you had a Swiss watch just meant that you had a high quality watch and there was really no reason to question that. But I think maybe it's because the Japanese, you know, kind of had to work a little harder for a number of years in the middle of the 20th century to kind of come up to that standard or gain that reputation. I feel like they've, they're like the hardest working, you know, brands and they've really excelled. Um, so that, those are kind of my thoughts. And I think the two watches you mentioned, um, both great, uh, James, I'm going to absolutely leave that entirely up to you because you've, you own one and you've handled both. |
|James Stacey|Yeah. Um, so as far as Swiss versus Japanese, I think that the thing that really strikes me is the, the level to which the Japanese are unburdened by the idea of traditional luxury. Um, it's not that they don't understand luxury. It's a different understanding of the same idea and it's not one based in central Europe. Right.  Yeah, literally by the nature of the question. And where I think they excel is the idea that a nice thing doesn't have to cost a fortune. It has to be made in a considered manner. Whereas the traditional Swiss methodology is the more money you spend, the nicer it gets. The other thing that I think is crucial and that we don't talk about enough is the Swiss methodology towards watchmaking today is that a conglomerate? Big. I mean, take Rolex aside, obviously, but Rolex is huge on its own. But I mean, Omega is part of Swatch. Tag Heuer is part of LVMH. You have these big groups. And what you end up with is a somewhat more homogenized product. A product that's meant to sell to a wider range of people. Whereas if you look at Seiko, it's an entirely different way of cracking the same egg, where the vertical integration is so strong that they can make niche products at any price point.  So like, like imagine if Tag Heuer made watches that started at $150 and topped out at what's it, what's an Ichi cost. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James Stacey|Let's call it a hundred grand. I don't remember. I'm sorry. I don't remember. They're expensive. That's, that's, that's the easy thing right up there with the best. And, and, and when, and the funny thing is, is when a Swiss brand offers an entry level, a newer, cheaper product, it's like demonstrably cheaper than, than what, than the thing you might've normally known from that brand.  Whereas when the Japanese offer a cheaper version, maybe the movement is more simple and won't keep time as well. But the details, the things you actually touch, aren't that vastly different than the better thing or the thing in the mid-range. And then when you commit to the top tier price, all of the original tradition, in this case, it would be Japanese tradition versus Swiss tradition, but watchmaking tradition is at some level internationalized now.  it's all still there. So it's a much wider view of watchmaking. And I think that the Swiss format is both more narrow, but also much more, it's like less butter on more toast, if that makes any sense. I think it's just two very different ways of doing it. I absolutely think that the Japanese methodology, much like Jason mentioned, because they came up largely from nothing in the mid-century, had to rebuild and restart all levels of industry. But you see this in other things that they create. It's a technology-forward, manufacturing-forward, product-forward sort of design and standpoint for the brand versus this heavy connection to the way we did things. They didn't normally do these things before, say, the war or not in the same metric.  Whereas the Swiss watch industry just kind of paused during the war and then came back. Right. And the same with the central European vehicles, like cars versus Japanese cars, that it's an entirely different philosophy. And I think that there's something much more accessible to the way that the Japanese view and design and create watches for an international audience. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and then as far as SPV versus BB 50, the BB 58 is a better watch.  Like, it's more than double the money. It is a much more accurate movement. The tolerances are better. The bezel is better. The bracelet is certainly better. The finishing is better. The warranty is better. The after-sales support is going to be better. It just depends on what you want to spend. I mean, if you have $3,700 to buy a watch from one of the best names in watchmaking, in sports watchmaking, that's a great thing to buy. It's fantastic. These aren't comparable items.  They're similar in size and where you put them on your body. And maybe even to someone who's not into watches, they're similar in aesthetic, but they're two completely different levels of a product. It's, you know, it's, it's comparing something that's a little bit more, um, uh, egalitarian, the SPB at a thousand dollars, uh, to something that's, that's entry-level luxury from, you know, a huge name in watchmaking. So sure. With the Tudor, you're paying something for the name. You're paying something for the, the in-house movement.  and the rest, but of course the Seiko is an in-house movement too, with the same, arguably more in-house, you know, with the Tudor one is from a partnership with Kinesi. In this case, while the Swiss versus Japanese question at large was the apples versus orange thing, this is kind of an apples versus orange thing. If you can afford the BB, it is a nicer watch. Does that mean I don't want my SPB? No, it's sitting on the desk in front of me and I absolutely adore it. But I think if it was a $4,000 watch, like let's say the SLA 017, that's going to be a much closer comparison. And I would still probably lean towards the Tudor. I think it's going to probably hold its value better. I would feel more inclined to kind of treat it poorly as a day-to-day watch without concern and that sort of thing. So yeah, between the two, I think the Tudor is a better watch, but also that it's not much of a, there's not a huge contest here in comparing a nearly $4,000 watch with a watch that you could round down to a thousand dollars. There's a difference, right? So that's the way I would see that. |
|Jason Heaton| All right, next question comes to us from Matt, who has a question about a lot of Tudor questions today. His Black Bay 58, can he wear it for his wedding? |
|Matt|Hey guys, this is Matt from San Diego. Love the podcast and really enjoyed Depth Charge. I read it on vacation in Palm Springs recently. Question I have for you guys is regarding my current OneWatch collection. Shortly after I got engaged, my fiance got me the original black dial Black Bay 58.  I wanted this watch since its inception and don't have any intentions on getting another daily wear watch. Two questions I have out of that are, one, is it acceptable to wear it as my wedding watch on an OEM bracelet? If not, is it necessary to get some sort of dress watch for the occasionally dressed up occasion? Maybe a nomos of some sort? And second, for the honeymoon we are going to Africa. Safari, hiking, climbing, diving, all that good stuff.  thinking of getting either a NATO or a rubber strap for that adventure. Thoughts between the two? Thanks and look forward to hearing. |
|Jason Heaton|Bye. Well, congrats on the impending nuptials, Matt. And, you know, I might be the wrong person to ask whether a dive watch is suitable for dress use because I, you know, as we mentioned way back in our discomforts episode, I've never been one to gravitate towards dress watches. And I just feel like, yeah, it's a bit of the James Bond cliche of a dive watch with a tuxedo. But I I just feel like, especially with a classic look like the Black Bay on its bracelet, I think go ahead, do it unless you need an excuse to buy something dressier. But I feel like given your love of the Tudor, this will make it all the more meaningful if you have it on your wrist during your wedding and maybe you get the back engraved or something with the date or whatever it might be. In terms of Africa, wow, great honeymoon idea. Sounds like you have a lot of adventures there. I'm going to vote NATO in this case.  you know, NATO's work well in all conditions, uh, sweaty and this and that, I would say bring two, bring three, you know, you can swap the look, you can just tuck a few cheap NATO straps into your, uh, into your backpack or whatever and, uh, and swap them as they get dirty or sweaty or, or whatever. Um, I think, I think they would work really well on that trip and be, be nice and unobtrusive and comfortable and, uh, and, and very sturdy. So that's, that's where I land. Any, anything to add, James? |
|James Stacey| Yeah, I would say as far as the wedding goes, you wear whatever you want, man. It's your wedding, right? Obviously, there's a time and a place for tradition and dress code and the rest of it, but I don't think that a black bay is going to look out of place in most scenarios. And I think it's important to consider these things as kind of footnotes for sentimentality in your life. I think that getting it engraved is super smart. If it's an issue, pop it off the bracelet, buy yourself a nice leather strap that matches the general tonality of, uh, of your suit. And if you're wearing a tuxedo, uh, don't be shy, just pop it, put it in your pocket. If you're worried about it showing up in a photo and then looking at that photo later and being like, man, I don't really like the idea of wearing a dive watch with a tuxedo, just have it with you. Um, if it feels important to you, that's why you should be doing it on your wedding. That's what weddings are about. It's about what's important to you and, and your partner. And, uh, I don't think, um, I wouldn't feel too much pressure to think, oh, I'd need a specific dress watch for the day, unless it would make the day better for you. Do what's best for you for that. And then, hey, it's me, go with a NATO. Unless you have a favorite rubber, like one you know that you really like, go with a NATO, bring a couple extra spring bars along with those extra straps just in case, and just have fun. Put some miles on the watch and enjoy your honeymoon. What a great trip and a killer watch. Well done.  Next up, we've got time for at least one more here. So we'll do a question from Derek about Rolex production years. |
|Derek|Hi, James and Jason. This is Derek from Northern New Jersey. I'm a huge fan and I just want to say that I appreciate all the work you guys have been doing. The podcast is always amazing and your writing is better than ever. Now for my question, I've always been curious as to how people track Rolexes and Tudors to their production year based on their serial numbers and maybe to a lesser extent, their reference numbers. So any light you can shed on that would be great. Thank you so much. Have a good one guys. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks. Uh, thanks Derek. You know, that's a, that question is kind of a, you know, deep nerd kind of collector sort of a topic, but I think it's pretty easy, especially when it comes to older Rolexes. I'm not sure where we land on modern Tudors and Rolexes, but at least up to, 2015 era, um, you can just look up the serial number from your Rolex on a number of online sources. Uh, the one I've used is from Bob's watches. Um, and they just have a page on Rolex serial numbers. You plug in your serial number and it gives you the production year. Um, and, and, you know, Rolex with its, with its serial numbers, you know, they had for a number of years, it was sort of alphanumeric and they would have Z and X and et cetera. And, and that usually corresponded with a certain date range. And, and, uh, it's, it's pretty simple.  Um, I think the really old ones, I think it was actually just numeric. I think it was just, you started, started zero and kind of work your way up until they ran out of numbers. Yeah. So that's, that's kind of the short answer. I think it's, it's just, uh, wherever they, they attach those codes to certain dates and somebody has gone through the trouble of putting together a way to look it up. What do you say we do one more Jason? |
|James Stacey|Yeah, sure. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. This one's from Dave. Who's got a question about, uh, file storage and backup. |
|Dave|Hi guys. Dave here from Elk Grove, California.  My question is about storing digital files. Where do you guys store your personal and work digital photos? Is it on a cloud or is it on a SSD or HDD? If it is on an external SSD or HDD, what are the pros and cons of using either or? Looking forward to your answers. Keep up the great work and thank you. |
|Jason Heaton|James, I'm going to let you take this one entirely. I use, uh, Dropbox, but I also take SSDs on trips, but I'm sure you've got a lot to offer here. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, so if we're talking long-term storage, then you need to consider archival quality of the media, right? So a lot of people used to burn all of their home videos and stuff onto DVDs, and some are archival quality, but most aren't. So they can't sit forever. They age in some ways, the materials. And the same thing goes for some hard drives. So I basically have a four-level approach.  to storing files. I have what's on my current desktop. Literally the desktop is what I'm working on actively. And that might be the last three months of photos. And then beyond that, I have an SSD, a Samsung T5 SSD that houses my main Lightroom catalog and all of the reference files for that. And that's a terabyte, give or take. The hard drive's a terabyte. I think my current working Lightroom is several hundred gigabytes, maybe a little bit more if I included the ones that aren't just watches. I have another library for family. I have another one for cars, and it can take up some space. At a certain point when that starts to fill up, I usually sort all of the reference files by date and take a whole year's range and put them on a spinning drive, a standard hard drive. But I like the kind of server class. So this would be Western Digital Red.  Hard drives are my preference. And they're a little bit more meant for this level of work. And then finally, when I really know that it is genuinely a backup, I use an online storage service. Dropbox is great. Backblaze is great. There's a lot of options out there. And some of them are direct syncing. So you could literally have a folder somewhere. I don't want that. What I want is the ability to identify things that I do not need immediate access to.  drag them all into an uploading tool. And then when I'm done, delete my copy. So I have, I have, you know, they're gone essentially. And, and they're, they're in the cloud at that point. Uh, Dropbox is a fine option. It's not your cheapest way you can, you know, like back plays and some of these other ones that are meant to be kind of longstanding services, uh, for, for, you know, long-term storage of files and stuff. The, um, the, the, the play there can be cheaper than what you pay for a terabyte or two of storage on on Dropbox. But of course, Dropbox is very much a trusted solution and very easy to access with a great web app and a phone app and the rest of them. Some of these other ones, you're kind of in a web browser using their tool. And then, of course, there's been stories in the past of some of these services kind of closing down or having data breaches and people losing stuff. So always with hard drives and files you care about, especially ones you care about a lot, one is none, two is one, as always.  I try and keep a lot of stuff on, you know, eight terabyte spinning drives, and then just don't, I don't really cycle them up that often, but I'll go through them occasionally and tidy up files and that sort of thing. So probably not a perfect solution and maybe even a little bit more complicated than what most people are looking for. I think Dropbox is a perfectly good way to do what most people would need to do if you don't have hundreds of gigs of stuff to deal with, or even more in some people's cases.  then I think Dropbox makes perfect sense. And so far, they seem to be a very trustworthy place to store and access your files. And you can use that SmartSync feature so that you actually don't have to have a copy with Dropbox and a copy on your physical local computer. So you can upload to Dropbox and then turn off SmartSync. And it's no longer on your computer, it's on their side. And you can view it as part of your file list, but it's not taking up space on your drive.  So that would be my recommendation. |
|Jason Heaton|Good. All right. Well, we plowed through a number of them today. We really made good headway here. |
|James Stacey|Yeah, we got through about 15 questions. We have three or four left. We actually got one or two while recording or just before recording. So those ones we'll get to in about a month's time. But if you have a question for us, record it into the voice app on your phone and then email the question to thegraynadoatgmail.com and we will add it to the list and we'll get to it. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton| Well, thanks everybody who submitted for this week. You know, we're getting through the backlog as James said, and we will have another episode sometime soon. But in the meantime, as always, thanks so much for listening. You can subscribe to The Show Notes via notes.thegrenado.com or check the feed for more details and links. Please follow us on Instagram at Jason Heaton and at J.E. Stacey and follow the show at The Grenado. If you have any questions for us, please do write to thegrenado at gmail.com or submit it in the comment section of the notes page and keep sending those voice memos. If you're enjoying the show, please subscribe and review wherever you find your podcasts and music throughout is Siesta by JazzArr via the free music archive. |
|James Stacey|And we leave you with this quote from Voltaire, who said, judge a man by his questions rather than his answers. |
