
# The Grey NATO – 202 – Oak & Oscar III From Windup Chicago (and merch is now for sale!)
Published on Thu, 28 Jul 2022 06:56:24 -0400



## Synopsis
This episode is a lively discussion covering a wide range of topics. The hosts chat about their experiences at a recent watch event in Chicago, including an interview with Chase Fancher, the founder of Oak & Oscar watch brand. They also delve into Chase's background, his passion for fly fishing, and his views on the watch industry. Additionally, they discuss the challenges faced by small businesses due to supply chain issues, the importance of maintaining brand authenticity, and strategies for navigating potential economic downturns. The episode concludes with recommendations for an insightful New Yorker article about Ernest Hemingway and a newly released Lego set inspired by the James Bond film franchise.

## Links
- [episode page](https://thegreynato.substack.com/p/202oakoscar3)
- [episode MP3](https://www.buzzsprout.com/2049759/11310916-the-grey-nato-202-oak-oscar-iii-from-windup-chicago-and-merch-is-now-for-sale.mp3)
- [episode webpage snapshot](episode.html)
- [episode MP3 - local mirror](episode.mp3)

## Transcript    
|*Speaker*||
|----|----|
|Jason Heaton| Hello, and welcome to another episode of The Grey Nado, a loose discussion of travel, adventure, diving, driving, gear, and most certainly watches. This is episode 202, and it's proudly brought to you by the ever-growing TGN supporter crew. Growing every single day, we're excited about that, and we thank you all so much for your continued support.  If you'd like to support the show and you aren't already, please visit thegraynado.com for more details on how you can do that. James, here we are. Two records in a week. Yeah. We're kind of going fast and furious here, kind of scrambling, fitting stuff in. |
|James|How's it going? Yeah, not too bad. I mean, this is mostly my, well, it's not mostly, it's absolutely my kind of mistake or my impetus why we're recording on a Friday when we recorded just a few days ago. I had some travel that I actually didn't think would happen.  Uh, starting Monday, there was many reasons for this project to be delayed and all of them were dismissed. Uh, so we're going to go forward. So I'm, I'm out of town and kind of probably working very long days, uh, to do something pretty exciting with Hodinkee that I'm flat out, not allowed to say more than that. Uh, but if you like TGN and you like some folks we've had on TGN before, I think you'll be deeply involved when this episode, uh, when, when this series eventually goes live. So, uh, that's exciting, but it's, it's my fault that we may not have a ton to talk about.  Because we did record like, um, 72 hours ago. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. True. I know. I'm whenever we do this and we're like, what have I done in the last three days? And then, you know, with final notes, it's like, Hmm, I just kind of, you know, kind of, uh, uh, gave away my, my week's worth of content, but no, I think, I think it'll be good. I think it's a, it's a good episode. It's another, um, kind of a continuation from, from some stuff we did at a wind up in Chicago. And that's, that's pretty exciting. We, It was just such a packed event that we came away from it with lots of inspiration, but also some content for a few weeks worth of shows. |
|James|Yeah, we've got the better part of, I guess, a month's worth of shows through this as far as the main topic goes, which is pretty exciting. But like you said, it is one of those ones where once I got back, I kind of had to catch up on a ton of work. I've had several very long days putting everything together, not only prep for this trip that's coming up, but just keeping up with the flow. And then I went to fill out You know, the pre-roll kind of chit-chat stuff and final notes and I realized like, oh man, if I'm not careful, I don't have a life outside of writing about watches and planning to write about watches and that kind of stuff. So unfortunately, I don't have a ton to chit-chat about today, but we do have some news about the TGN bundles and the merch. You want to fill people in? |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah, sure. So, um, as we talked about, uh, well earlier this week, but you heard it on, on the last episode, you know, those, uh, those TGN adventure kerchiefs, uh, from cantonment and the, the gray NATO logo t-shirt, the enamel pin, uh, and our slogan stickers, um, are all going to be available, are available as of now. Uh, if you're listening to this on the 28th of July or beyond, um, on our graynado.com website, you can go to the graynado.com slash shop.  And we are selling the entire bundle as a bundle. So whereas that wind up, uh, people were able to buy things individually, although most people did buy them as bundles, cause it kind of made more sense. Um, we're just going to do a bundle sales here, uh, which gets you the, uh, the gray NATO t-shirt, the one inch enamel pin, a three by three square sticker with our, uh, opening kind of a slogan, the travel adventure, diving, driving gear, and most certainly watches on it. And that, uh, cool, uh, two kerchief set made for us by Kentonment.  that we're hoping people will use as kind of a expedition or adventure flag. And we appreciate everybody's input on that in the show notes last week. |
|James|Oh man, I've got like two or three places next week that I'm going to take it. I'm excited. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, it's so cool. I love the response we've gotten to that. And I think these are going to sell well. I think people are going to be excited about it. We've gotten a lot of feedback personally and together in the TGN email box and in the comments on Substack and DMs on Instagram, et cetera.  Um, do check that out, the graynado.com slash shop. Uh, as of today, I'm a little, uh, I have a little bit of anxiety cause I haven't actually, uh, you know, finalized the setup of that page that the page is ready to go. Just got to do some final details and do some testing. We'll be ready to go next week and there'll be lots of, uh, FedEx bike rides for in my future, um, shipping those off to people. And I'm really excited to do that. So, uh, yeah. |
|James|And the one thing we wanted to add in, because, um, It's kind of the reason we haven't done our shop in the past, like a built-out, ready-to-roll shop, is the shipping is such a problem. You either charge so much to everyone that it evens out, or you charge per unit shipping. And the problem is, right now, shipping is kind of crazy. It's always been expensive, let's be clear. We've all done these kinds of things. But the delta between shipping something, let's say if a different James lived in the States, shipping from Jason's HQ to me in the States would be a normal amount of money, $10, $15, something like that, um, to ship to Canada is like three X. Yeah. So we have decided to go with, um, to charge for actual shipping. Uh, so the rate is essentially passed on to you. I know that might not be ideal, especially if you're in a place that's quite expensive. And as a Canadian, I understand, but we went back and forth on this for a while. And this is the choice that we've made. And I apologize if it's a pain, like, like Jason said, like, we're not great business people.  Uh, we just kind of do our best and they're, you know, this is one of the main reasons that's like held us back from running a shop is it, it, it just feels expensive to us. And we want to make sure that just like what the shows value is there and that you get something that like you're excited to open. Uh, so I, I think it's going to be really fun. And if you do get the Cantonment set, uh, the, the adventure flag thing is something we're really keen on. So even if you go on a local hike, yeah.  you know, go to the point where you turn around, where you're furthest from your car and take a little photo. You can be in the photo. We would love that. Um, it can just be the flag. If you're going on a dive, if you're going on a great run, if you broke a personal record, like share it with us, you could, you could be wearing the flag. You can be holding the flag, whatever works. I think that they're, they're pretty nice in the summer for sweaty adventures, but, um, uh, hit us with that. And I, and to Jason's point from last episode, If you have a great idea for the hashtag that people can share on, also let us know that in the comments. That's the one we're still working on. It looks like something like TGN adventure, uh, which would be, uh, cool. Um, and, and I think could work for just about anything. You could go for one of those micro adventures in your own backyard, or you could, um, you know, if you want to show it to us at the top of a mountain, I'm on board. I can't wait to take, uh, take one to the top of a mountain as soon as possible or underwater.  all that kind of stuff. So a big thank you to all of you who are going to check out the the merch sort of in advance. Thank you. And if you have any feedback or that kind of stuff, I mean, this is all a work in progress for us. But we've struck a zone that feels comfortable. Check out the grainator.com slash shop for more. And Jason, I guess we didn't get a download on what you've been up to for the last few weeks. Anything, anything kind of major, major concerns or plans back home? |
|Jason Heaton|Well, I mean, you know, got home on Monday, it was pretty I'm still recovering. I mean, I just, I'm so fatigued. I'm just like, uh, and it's funny, I thought, you know, the introverts hangover, the introverts hangover, um, you know, but, uh, coming out of it, getting back into kind of my regular exercise routine. Uh, and then, uh, I was, I was really eager, you know, I got such great feedback at windup about, um, people that, that liked reading depth charge and we're asking about the new book and I'm, I'm really on a roll with that. So I've been working on that. I wrote another chapter yesterday. I would say I've probably got, Not to give too much away, I'm about 140 pages written, like pre-edit written. So I would say that's probably a good halfway done with the story and it just keeps spooling out. So, you know, I'm really, really having fun with this one and I think people are going to enjoy the story. So it's good to kind of get back to that. And I think August is going to be a big, a big writing month for me. So I'm hoping by the end of the summer to have something to send to an editor and get that finalized. So that's what I've been working on for the past, what, 72 hours.  What about you? You've just been head down working. I've literally just been working. |
|James|Packing your bags for your trip. And packing the bags. I actually just threw one of my copies of DepthCharge in there. I'm going to reread it. Oh, nice. It feels right for this trip. It'll be kind of fun that way. And I'd like to read it quickly over the next couple of days and then give it to somebody that we're on the trip with. I'm sorry to be so cryptic. This is one of those things where I was sworn to secrecy.  Uh, but I will, I will talk about it at length when it's time and, and bring on some people who can chat more about it. Cause it should be pretty fun. But yeah, otherwise just packing, making sure like I know where my, my batteries are. And, uh, after this, uh, after this recording, I'm actually going to go outside for the first time in four or five days, uh, for more than a couple of minutes. Uh, you remember those Dewar adventure pants? Yeah, of course. Like from years ago, Dewar very kindly gave you and I each a pair. I finally, um, destroyed them.  So the seat, the crotch to be, I don't know, I hate the saying that word. I hate that it's recorded, but I just said it, um, uh, was, it just kind of blew out eventually. I'd like, I wore, I lived in these for the last few years. Uh, so I'm going to go buy the exact same exact same color and everything. And it's like a 30 minute bike ride from, from where I live in Toronto. |
|Jason Heaton|So they have an actual storefront or did they selling it at a certain retail? |
|James|Yep. They have a store in Toronto. Oh, cool. So I waited way too long. I should have just ordered them on the website and kept it easy, but this way I can, I can make a, I can give myself an excuse to go outside and actually get some some sun on my skin and that sort of thing. Um, I'm excited. It's been such an insane week, uh, you know, getting things ready for, for all sorts of different work and the rest of it. So I've got about an hour, hour and a half after this that I can kind of sneak away under the guise of a, uh, of a lunch break. |
|Jason Heaton|So I, um, I've actually forgotten about those pants, but those were great pants. But the one problem I had, and I think you did too, when I first got them, I I'd gotten my tip of my waist size and they were already way too big for, for what the waist size was, was kind of advertised as. And, and so I really had to cinch up a belt to wear them. I never did take them in. And then, you know, of course, over the last year, I've lost a fair bit of weight and I'm just not hopeless for you now. Oh, hopeless. I mean, they would just fall off or I'd need to, I'd look like one of those, you know, with suspenders, like kind of just hanging on me like a clown or something. |
|James|I did want to shout out, cause I don't remember the brand and you will, of course, cause you were wearing them. You had those multicolored.  Oh, yeah, the six sort of cargo. Yeah, sorry. 686. Yeah, 686. That was it. Yeah, they're really cool. If you I only judge them based on the colors on the website, and they were they're like less rich in person. Yeah, like more like a faded camo. |
|Unknown| Right. |
|James|Um, I really liked those. And if I, again, if I had had more time, I really, what I should have done was, uh, was invest in a little bit of the triple out design stuff for this trip. Oh, sure. Uh, it would have aligned really nicely with, with some of the plans we have, but, um, the doer stuff is incredible. I'm, I'm really excited to grab another pair, but that'll be my, that'll be my, um, your outing excursion, I guess. Otherwise, otherwise, yeah, I'm just working on the laptop tan these days. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton| Well, speaking of strange tan lines, we both are wearing a watch that would certainly result in that. Why don't you go first? |
|James|What do you got on? So just before wind up, it looked like there was a possibility of getting two watches in like a couple of days. The brand new Seiko SSK003 via topper, jewelers and our buddy Zach. And that's awesome. And I love it very much. And then while I was at wind up, I also took delivery of the new Aqualan JP 2007 17W. In an attempt to be as raw as possible, I thought I would like this watch intellectually, and I would wear it once a month. Yeah, yeah. And guys, I've had it since, what, Saturday? |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James|And it's been on for six days. I haven't taken it off, I haven't put the Seiko back on. The Seiko's a great watch. I'm not saying that necessarily one's better than the other, but this Citizen hits so hard.  Yeah. Yeah. I'm thrilled by it. It makes me feel like a kid. I love the way that it gives me that. It's the right way to describe it. Like that Panerai feeling, especially on the rubber strap where like it's bulky, but looks like it fits correctly. Right. Right. I didn't think I would love the rubber strap. It's this kind of big, um, yeah. Wave rubber strap with a fantastic matched buckle. Uh, and then every time I look down at it or I would see it, this is the rare thing where I see a photo of myself. Like we'd see pictures from our chats at, yeah.  at windup and I go like, that looks pretty cool on me. I think it might actually be making me look cooler. Doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. I immediately got home, went on Amazon so I could get something quickly and picked up a Barton sort of, um, it's a little bit deeper than olive green. Yeah. It looks good. Uh, like an olive drab, I guess, uh, with black hardware. It's a little too shiny for my appeal. |
|Unknown|Mm. |
|James| You guys know, I'm so picky and it really is the Utenados. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James|This one comes so close and was inexpensive. Barton, you should really be proud of this. And I put it on that strap and that's how I've been wearing it. And I fall asleep with it on. You'd look at it and you go like, there's no way to sleep with that. There's no way that doesn't make sense off of a wetsuit. And then you put it on and it's this, it has a similar weird footprint to a Doxa. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|James|Yeah. It's wide and short. And then it has this ridiculous nub.  for the depth gauge. |
|Jason Heaton|Which is very unobtrusive. I mean, it doesn't really... You don't notice it at all. And I wear it on my right wrist. And people are like, no, you can't wear it on your right wrist. That's crazy. No, it doesn't hit my hand. It's comfortable. I love it. |
|James|Yeah. I don't know the last time I had a 500, and it's probably that Seiko for about 24 hours. Right, right. The last time I had a 500 or $600 watch that hit as hard as this one. Yeah. I have a seven inch wrist, so it's not a giant wrist.  Jason, I think it looks a little bit better on you, but the lugs don't hang over, even with the NATO. It's not too thick. It doesn't weigh anything. I actually really like the function set. It's right in there with what I got from my Aerospace. Yeah, it's super useful. And I think weirdly, despite the fact that the Aerospace is 40 millimeters, and this, depending on how you measure, is pushing 60, I guess. Right, right. It could, 55. Yeah. It doesn't wear like it at all. I think this is such an absolute gem. |
|Jason Heaton| Yeah, I mean, you and I have long been on record with our love of analog digital watches, and there's just something about the layout of this one. You know, I had that Sepharni for a while, and a cool watch, but the case shape wasn't quite the fit for me. I finally sold that. You know, this one certainly has the nostalgia thing going for it, because I've got an 85 original Aqualand with the same case. And so, you know, it kind of ticks that box for me. But I don't know, you know, we've also talked a lot about the the chronosport udt um and how we love that watch and i think this is like that watch i mean let's face it uh miyota made the movement for for those chronosports back in the day so chances are there was even some overlap back then although the technical overlap yeah that digital screen was at the bottom of that dial but um it just has that same hesitate to use the word tactical because it's it's overused and it kind of has a certain uh|
|James| sort of uh reputation i guess uh you know i'm not this isn't like a toy soldier kind of watch this is like um i don't know it just feels like you want to go do stuff with it and you feel like you can't break it i thought i would like it it's an aqualand yeah right yeah but i'm surprised by the fact that i'm like kind of obsessed with it yeah and i actually i would love i would love um i would love a little bit of feedback i would love options for more really good 24 millimeter straps i feel like i've got the lock on 22s and 20s yeah and have for years yeah But if you have like a really good canvas two-piece. Right. That's in a military adjacent color that would work with the gun metal case and can be had with dark hardware. It can be black. That's okay. It just can't be steel. Right. Bugs me too much. I don't know why I'm specific on that, but it does bug me. I tried this thing on a couple of 24 millimeter NATOs I have and it works. Yeah. It troubles me as well. It just like, it looks like you, you, you forgot something. Yeah. Right. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. Yeah.  Well, I do have options. I do have, I do have a couple of suggestions because I've gone through the same. So currently I'm wearing it on, remember our friends at Artem, the sailcloth strap company in Australia. I went ahead and I ordered a 24 millimeter black sailcloth with, I guess it's kind of an off-white stitch, kind of a nice padded sailcloth strap in black, of course, but then it has a PVD buckle on it, big PVD buckle.  And it suits the watch really well. I think that that rippled rubber that comes on it is almost still the best look for this watch. But I think this Artem works really well. It comes close and you can wear it in the water, so that's great. And then I also got, speaking of Barton, I ordered, they have this kind of muted gray camouflage canvas strap that you can order with or without, or you can order it separately, a gunmetal PVD buckle. And so that's what I did.  I posted something in my Instagram stories, but, uh, yeah, we can, we can throw it in the show notes or put a link somewhere. I can put a picture on Instagram, but, uh, yeah, it's, uh, that looks really good too. And I, I kind of, because I've got these two Aqua lines, I've got the steel one, um, from, from the eighties. And then I've got this one, I'm kind of playing with bands, passing them back and forth and putting the different watches on different straps. But 24 is a tough one. Cause you know, Panerai of course has been 24 for many years and there's a lot of kind of 24, 24 millimeter, uh, kind of Panerai straps, but I don't know that it's quite the right fit. Kind of those big burly 24 millimeter leather ones, you know. |
|James|I have a few of those like baseball style straps. Yeah. Stuff with big 24 millimeter lugs that like suited that, but it was that really cool, like 2006 to 2010 look. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, that was going around. And for this, the weird thing is, is the watch almost wears smaller than any strap you put it on. I can't explain why. I'll try and do some math with the calipers.  to figure it out. But this for me is like, physically, I look at it, I'm like, well, that should fit like my Rangeman, my G-Shock Rangeman. It's a 9400-1 that I used to have. And I put it on and I swear it's six, seven, eight millimeters smaller. It just, like visually, it still kind of works. Yeah, I'm really kind of just very impressed. The Seiko's incredible. I'm going to do a huge write-up on the Seiko. We'll talk about it at length because Jason and I have both seen it So if you might be keen on like an SSK episode, uh, let us know. I think it's a really important watch. I think it's killer for the money. Um, but if we're talking charm and, and kind of like the G shock that, that actually works for my wrist, it's the, it's this new Aqualant. |
|Jason Heaton|Right. Right. Oh. And, and, you know, since we're talking about this watch, um, and, and if people are getting excited about it, the, the, the shame about it is, is that, uh, it is not available.  officially in North America via Citizen or, you know, Citizen retailers. And that's a real shame because, you know, I've gotten a lot of kind of interest in feedback on social media about this watch. And, you know, certainly you can source it on eBay or through private sellers on the forums. But, you know, we'd like to just kind of put out an informal poll to the listeners here. Like, if you'd like to have this watch available, you know, speaking specifically to kind of our North American listeners, uh, in this market, um, this hemisphere and this, uh, these couple of countries here in North America, like drop it in the, in the comments on sub stack, because, um, we'd love to kind of get a feel for, are we just kind of a couple of lunatics kind of shouting into the wind about some weird quirky watch with a big bulbous depth sensor on the side, or are we onto something? |
|James|Uh, yeah, more than happy to go to citizens, send an email and say like, look, this many people said Aqualand plus one on on the show notes. Um, so if this is something that you think would be fun, it's an inexpensive watch within our world. It just, it just is. I think they're 550 bucks. And I think for that, you get an experience you can't get elsewhere with something like this. You have to buy at gray market. And I think it'd be more fun to be able to go to a store theoretically and put it on your wrist and decide just cause I think you'll, you'll immediately smile and go like, well, uh, which credit card, I guess. I don't know. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. All right. Time to jump in the main topic, our chat with Chase Fancher. |
|James| If you don't know Chase, it's probably because maybe you're a little bit new to the show, but this would be the third time that he's been on. Way back in the day before we actually numbered our TGN chats, our interviews, he was on. Thank you so much, Chase, for being on the show when we were still in the very early days. And then he was on again at episode 50. And then I don't really know how it happened. I blinked and we did like 152 episodes without having Chase back on. But Chase Fancher is the founder, kind of guy in charge at Oak and Oscar, which is this really enthusiast driven, thoughtful creator of sport watches out of Chicago. So we're in wind up Chicago. You don't really miss a chance to sit down with Chase. He's a lovely guy. He makes a great product and he has a specific outlook on the watch business. So I would say this, this chat's a little bit more businessy than we normally do, but I think he was like the right person to ask because he may be operating what you would have originally called a micro brand, but he has this sort of macro, look on the market and this very specific thing about how he treats his customers and the idea of how his brand might interface with people who love watches. I think you'll love this chat with Chase. It was a pleasure to see him as always. So here it is, Okanosker, Chase Fancher, number three. Chase, it feels like it's been a decade since we talked last time. I think it was episode 50. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, that more or less. |
|James|It's been a long time. It feels like a long time. It's one of those things that the last couple of years felt fast and slow at the same time.  It's this is actually pretty fun. It was one of the one of the things we were looking forward to for the Chicago episodes I think you're the only guy to come on three times other than the the pinch hitter Cole Pennington Which is which is just crazy to me. |
|Chase Fancher|You said that to me the other day and like that's that's humbling. That's an honor That's something that I don't know if I've grown up yet to deserve that but I'll take it. |
|James|That's awesome I mean, I think I think that the the overlap between what we like and what you like I mean we went out for some great beers last night and really had a blast. And with you and a few folks, the overlap is so easy. Yeah. I don't know, did we talk about watches last night? |
|Chase Fancher|I don't think we did. We did. We didn't. It was cars, Land Rovers, whiskey, bourbon, fly fishing, outdoors, camping, being in a hundred-year-old cabin that doesn't have water. Love it. I don't think we talked about watches. |
|Jason Heaton|I finally met your wife and your kids this morning. That was fun. Yeah, super fun. Your son's got that cool old vintage watch he wears. |
|Chase Fancher| fun.  You know, as a father, like that makes me really happy. And it was really cool for them to come see it, too. |
|James|Absolutely. And I want to get into it. Obviously, we want to talk watches, but also campaigning Land Rovers. Anything. There's a new Subaru interest, which I'm keen on. Oh, boy. But I think there might be a handful of people in the audience, obviously not in the room here, but in the audience back home who don't know the backstory on Oak and Oscar. And I don't want to presume that everybody would have the same the same backstory. So why don't you give us the quick pitch and then we'll get into what the last couple of years have been like. |
|Chase Fancher| Yeah, sure. So I founded Oak & Oscar back in 2015. So actually this year we're celebrating our seventh anniversary, which is just awesome. It's been such a fun, fun ride since day one. We started our first launch with the Burnham, which is a great little 42 millimeter piece. And, you know, the whole idea was I was not happy with my day job. Great company, great team, great folks, but I did not have a work-life balance. I wasn't doing something I was passionate about.  And I wanted to do something that I was really proud of and something that I really cared about. I've always loved watches, entrepreneurship, branding, everything like that. So I wanted to put it all together. And it was something that came really natural for me. Something that I was, I really thought long and hard about and was able to put together Oak and Oscar. Oak is because I love bourbon. So they all aged in oak barrels and Oscar is actually my dog's name. But so it's really just about things that I love. It's, you know, watches, bourbon, dogs, because part of our profits actually go to a local dog shelter, which is great. |
|James| And that's partnerships ongoing? Ongoing. Because that's how it's been since the start. Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. And I get to spend more time with my wife and kids as well. So it's I love it. It's great. We we have our own in-house watchmaker as well now, too. So we're doing service. We're actually making some parts. When did that come down? About two years ago. Oh, great. |
|James|Well, let's get into what the last. So a new watchmaker, which is that's got to be crucial, right? Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|Nathan's great. |
|James|Awesome. |
|Chase Fancher|He's a little mad scientist in the workshop. It's great. He's like, oh, I made this like, wow.  How the hell did you do that? He's like, oh, just like that. I'm like, I didn't get that still, but I love it. |
|James|Well, there was, and there was just an announcement over the PA about, was it bezel making? Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|So for our seven, our seven year Humboldt, uh, we actually made the bezel, um, in, in our own shop. And, uh, it's a really nice brass as well as we finished the dial on that lathe that's out there, which is an old naval lathe. And Nathan got it a few years ago and he's had it in the shop and we're having fun making pieces and parts and So he did a demo of how we're making the bezel, how we made the bezel. All those watches are already sold and gone, but it's just really fun because we get to explore and play more with more toys and do more cool things and show that we've got a lot that we can do as a small independent brand. |
|James|So speaking of a lot that you can do, what's been on the plate for the last couple of years? What's in the works? What can people kind of expect? |
|Chase Fancher|Man, that question came early about what to expect for the future. |
|James| You're always working on something. |
|Chase Fancher|Always. We have like five years of stuff planned, whether it's in my head or whether it's on paper and technical and making prototypes. It's all varying levels, but we've got a lot of fun stuff that we're doing. You know, on our website right now, you'll see the Humboldt GMT, which is a watch that we released earlier this year, actually. Love this piece. Anti-shock, anti-mag. It's got a bidirectional bezel, GMT complication, 20 atmosphere water resistance. We call it the Adventure Watch.  I'm Like, this is amazing. So I've gotten into fly fishing over the past two years or so, and I've been completely addicted to it. As many people are with things like that, whether it's cars, coffee, watches, of course. Fly fishing was one of those things for years. I knew I would love it. I knew I would love it, but I didn't have anyone to help, like, kind of teach me and show me the ways. And then finally, I found a buddy who was like, yeah, come up to the cabin. Let's go up in the Driftless area, which is just a beautiful area of Wisconsin. It's one of my most favorite places in the world.  So I was doing fly fishing in Wisconsin in late February when it was about 10, 15 degrees. We actually got a video of it on YouTube. It's, it's, it's great. It's really cold. You'll be cold watching it. Um, but then a couple of weeks later I was out fly fishing and wine country in, um, in California visiting my sister-in-law and we were with my family and I was like, hon, do you mind if I like find a guide and sneak away for a morning? And she's like, go for it. I went fly fishing in, uh, I can't remember the stream, but in California, And then the next weekend we were flying to Switzerland for some QC and prototypes and production stuff and found a guide out in the Alps and went fly fishing in the Alps. So one week it was in Driftless and the next weekend it was California. And then one of the next weekends it was out in Switzerland, which was just nuts. I'm like, I don't know how that happened, but it's pretty cool though. |
|Jason Heaton|I love it. I'm curious with the, with fly fishing. I remember this term that Ben Clymer told me years ago when he was kind of First getting into kind of car collecting and he said what he enjoyed about it was after years of being so embedded in the watch space that getting kind of into cars allowed him to become a civilian again. And I would imagine it's kind of a similar experience with fly fishing. Fly fishing to me, I've never done it. I've been kind of admired the lifestyle from afar. But it's an intimidating sport. It's like golf, but you need even more patience. I think a lot of people here can probably relate. You know, you come to an event like this or you go up to a booth or you just start getting into watches, you meet watch enthusiasts, and it's a little intimidating, right? Yeah. So, I mean, how did that feel with fly fishing when you first got into it? |
|Chase Fancher|Was it kind of nice to be a novice again? It is 100% the same way. It's both nice and also a little frustrating. It's actually one of the reasons why I don't golf, is like, for me, I don't have the patience for golf. Like, I do things I think the exact same way, but it never happens the same way. But for me, with fly fishing, yeah, I had to learn all about these different things, like, what are these terms, and people, like, Go really fast and talk about things. I'm like, wait, stop. What? I don't understand the difference between this and this. The leader, a tippet. What's that? But as you keep doing it, as you learn to tie these knots yourself, as you're forcing yourself in the stream to tie these knots while you're also like freezing because it's 15 degrees and your hands can't really feel much, you start getting better and better at it. You start doing things faster and more efficiently. And when you're tying your own lines and even maybe tying your own flies and that's what you're throwing into the water and that's what catches that beautiful like 12 inch brown trout.  Wow. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|And feeling that and just standing in the stream you have this pure relaxation for me. |
|Unknown|Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|It's like you're talking about this last night for me like that is something where I can just sit and stand in that stream whether I'm catching fish or doing anything. And I'm just like this is beautiful. |
|Jason Heaton|You know trying to kind of loop that back in with watches like when you first started open Oscar watches that try you. This is about you were I mean you were active in I think in the red bar Chicago scene and kind of the local watch enthusiast scene. I'm guessing you were a collector before that. So But to break into this world of actually making and selling watches of your own, was that similarly intimidating or a different kind of flavor of that? |
|Chase Fancher|I think I almost was either naive or ignoring what should have scared me about breaking into the world of starting my own brand. It was one of those scenarios where every little bit of chipping away at my planning, at my looking at the finances of how to fund it all, Years before we even launched it got to that point and this you'll hear from a lot of other entrepreneurs as well. You get to the point where you reduce risks as much as you possibly can that it feels like it's more risky to not do it. And so I got to the point where I was looking at how we were doing our branding, our design, our production, where things were coming. It got to the point where if I don't do this, the risk of me feeling like a failure from not trying is much larger than being worried about it failing.  If that makes sense. Yeah. And so it, it was that point of you learn everything, you plan everything. And of course things don't always go that way, but you've found that those resources and the strength of like almost within yourself to find like, cool, let's go a different path. |
|Unknown|Right. |
|Chase Fancher|Let's find something new. Let's try something new. That supplier didn't work out. I've got only a few days to fix it. Guess what? I'm going to find a way. And that to me is really fun actually putting out those little small fires that happen. |
|James|Yeah.  And you were talking about going to Switzerland for some QC and stuff. I'm interested because you are that hands-on with the suppliers and a wide variety of suppliers, I'm sure. How has the last couple of years been on those suppliers? How's it been on you guys? The supply chain thing is something you hear about if you turn the news on. And they're talking about cars, they're talking about chipsets. But what's it like if you're a small business that literally relies on an actual supply chain? |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, it's very real. We're very lucky that We kind of started early buying more than what we thought was actually reasonable. But like, for example, our Olmstead 38, we are out of stock on it. We are backward until probably late Q3, early Q4. It's because we sold too many too quickly and we weren't able to bring that supply up as fast as we needed to. But there's like even little things like our American made watch tools that we have. That supplier can't get steel fast enough to be able to make it for us. And it can take six months to get more of them. And they're just like little tiny things.  And it's crazy. Even leather or leather goods maker, Dustin out of Indiana. It's not just supply. It's also health. He and his family all had COVID for a while. And he's like, yeah, I can't get this stuff done for you. I'm like, cool. I get it. We'll wait. And people will get it too. And if they don't, then the leather stuff's really nice. |
|James|I appreciate that. It always has been. I remember that. I remember early on, it was like one of your, one of the points of the brand story was the dedicate like having it being loosely local and definitely American. And of course, this area is known for its leather. Yeah. And really, really cool stuff. Great cases. If you haven't seen haven't seen their stuff, it's it's all really beautiful. Years ago, you gave Jason and I each like a watch pouch that I still carry around. Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|It's beautiful. Little suede pouch. I think I even hand branded TGN. |
|James|Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. |
|Chase Fancher|One of them. One of them, I think I actually messed up a little bit. |
|James|Yeah. I don't have the eye for detail that you have. That's why I edit a podcast and build a watch brand.  But you and you're in pretty deep when it comes to Land Rover stuff, right? As far as like, like you're in there with this fellow. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I don't want to presume longer, but maybe longer. I think so. Probably about, oh, 25 years now. Like I've owned a few of them. Started with the 97 Land Rover Discovery, which I loved. Willow green, the best color they've ever made.  I had the safari roof rack, lift kit, big tires, all that stuff. It was great. I've made friends with it, went off-roading, camping. It was so much fun. But then I've had my current, I've got two right now, 2004 Discovery, the D2, which is my daily.  which is a tough car to have as your daily because of one, gas mileage and two, things breaking. And then the 95 long wheelbase Range Rover Classic, which I love. It's just beautiful. It's because I can't afford a Defender and that one looks beautiful as well. And I can't wait to get that one kind of more restored and back up and running. But the Discovery we've alluded to before may be on the chopping block for me, which feels really weird because I've had it since Okinawa started. Yeah. Yeah. It's got its issues. It's a navy blue. We need to put some orange accents somewhere to make it really, really mine. But I think that one's, I think I need to get like a new daily driver, a car that gets like decent gas mileage, something that I actually feel safe putting my kids in. The benefit of the Land Rover is like, if somebody hits it, it's not going anywhere. But like for the other downside to that is like, although they're new brakes, I'm not quite sure I'm always going to stop. And that always makes me worried. |
|James| Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. And we were talking it might be a Subaru move. Looking at Subaru Outback. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. Subaru Outback. There's like a number of cars on the list. Subaru Outback. Do you sell a pair of Birkenstocks? I think that comes with it. |
|James|Right. Oh, it probably does. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. And a dog. Yeah. Yeah. |
|James|An extra dog. You get one more. |
|Chase Fancher|You get one more. Love it. Oscar's awesome. He'll be so happy. And I look at like the RAV4 Adventure model. And then if I were patient enough and I think if I had enough money, it might be the Rivian.  Um, like I think they're doing a great job on that car, but it's also like a three, four year wait and like 90 grand. Um, and I don't think I'm cool enough yet for them to be like, here's one for sure. But, uh, they're located here in Illinois. I think it would make sense. |
|Jason Heaton|I'm just saying going back to watches. I don't mean to keep pulling us back into watches, but I'm just curious because, um, you know, we've known you a long time. And I remember when you came to Minneapolis, um, where I'm based and you had an event with five watt coffee and some folks there. And we, we did that kind of, it was, It was kind of a really cool kind of small scale event. And watching over the years, you've had this through line of your designs and kind of your branding has stayed very true to kind of a core sort of aesthetic and kind of feel. But I've also seen your presence in the industry grow. Obviously, your big presence in the Chicago watch industry, big presence here at the show. I'm sure you've added capabilities to the company. You mentioned the watchmaker.  When you look back at your early stuff, is there stuff you cringe about? Or do you think, oh, I wish I could have done differently? What's been the biggest learning curve or biggest positive change for Oakland Oscar? |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, there are things I look back at that I cringe at. I'm like, ooh, I would have done that a lot better this time. And much of that is just how to better communicate with our suppliers, for one. But then also that I'm not willing to take what they say as, like, that's the best we can do. And I'm like, nope, we can do better. And we found great suppliers who are like, cool, I'm up to that challenge. Let's do it.  And then also now that we've been around for seven years and we've done lots of watches and people have that greater respect for us, they're listening to us more to say like, you're right, we can do better. You're right. Like that level of demand and quality, like we can do that. We'll do that for you because now like you're a bigger customer for us. And I think that that's something that is, will continue through the years. But certainly looking back at our design language, as you said, it's something that we've wanted to Um, keep strong for the past few years and will for the next lots of years because it's one very personal to me. It's designs that I love. I think that's really important. I want to be able to stand behind everything we do. Um, and I want to love everything we do so I can talk about it passionately. It's also my company so I can do that, which is great, but there are like little things, like for example, the Burnham, and this is one that I've actually never publicly admitted, but the color of the dial was like 1% different than I wanted.  And I really hated that. But at the same time, I love that color, but what I didn't like was it wasn't the exact one that I wanted. And it had a little bit of blue in it that I now have come to actually love. It's the only one that we've ever done in that color, which is unique, and we'll probably never be able to do it again because it wasn't what I actually wanted originally. But I think it's a color that turned out really nice. |
|James| It's definitely a struggle. When I first met you, I realized like, oh, like a bunch of these guys that have made successful long-term watch brands, the commonality between you, you fellows are almost exclusively, you're perfectionists. And there's like, well, I'm not going to do it somebody else's way. I'm only going to do it my way, even if it takes longer and it's more expensive. And the only people who understand nicely are the people who end up buying the product.  which I think is pretty special. What's your, what's your, what's your, your kind of outlook on what you think the next few years will be for this world? Not just for Okanoska. For the world? Because you guys are established, it's there, but I think the micro-brand thing is getting harder and way less personal. Like the stuff that I think drew us all into this a decade ago, it seems like it's more faceless now, a little bit more casual. |
|Chase Fancher|I think, I think honestly you might have a better grasp on that than me in the sense that like we're, in our world, and looking at the community of folks who are owners and buyers and customers and stuff like that. In my perspective of what I see, folks launching these other smaller brands, some of the better ones are pouring themselves into it, but a lot of the people are like, I'll take that dial, this, that, that handset, this case, I'm going to put it out there and I'm totally gonna make a lot of money. And what they don't realize is none of that is true whatsoever. You have to make it something that you're passionate about in order for folks to feel it.  For sure. Because you hit on something. That's what they're buying. Yeah. You hit on something really accurate is that a lot of the folks like the people involved in the company. They want to feel like they're part of the company as a whole. Totally. And that's something that's really important to us. And that's why we don't call folks customers. We have owners. People are owner pieces. The customers to us are far too transactionary. |
|James|I feel like once people kind of get the full scope of it and I think the price thing has become a lot easier to understand because watches became so expensive the last few years. Yeah. And like micro brands didn't just double their prices. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, we've we were actually some of the like maybe one of the first brands in our price point. And when we first launched, people were like, what the? That's a lot of money for what are you doing? Who are you? And it's been kind of interesting to watch over the past few years. No one asks the question anymore of like, well, why is it so expensive? Everyone gets it now. They understand, especially of what we do and our quality and how we do things differently, where we are machining some parts and like finally there's maybe a handful of other brands doing that that are smaller in our size, certainly in the U S and it's something that we're really proud of. And we put a lot extra in there, but yeah, to your point of folks are starting to realize that these brands and also to be able to be around for several years because you have to pay people living wages, you have like actual expenses, you can't just sell a watch for costs that some brands have started trying to do. |
|James|And you're also not like buying a watch and essentially having it, 95 percent finish when it comes in a box to your office. Correct. Or drop shipping or something. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, we definitely like we've yeah drop shipping. No pain point is skipped in the process. That like makes me shudder. People are like, just drop ship. I'm like, yeah, no, I want to make sure that we are personally like closing that that canvas wallet and signing the letter and putting a note in there. And like that's last the last person to see that's us. |
|James|Like does this is the strategy going to change in the next few years if there is a recession?  if the money kind of, I don't think it's going to necessarily be the money gets pulled out of the world of Oak and Oscar, but if some of the money gets pulled out of the general watch enthusiasm crowd. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. You know, your question that you asked us before that was like, what do I think is going to happen in the next couple of years and kind of go in with that as well. I think that no matter what, there's dedicated watch folks out there and no matter what, there are people out there who either want to buy your watch now or want to buy your watch a couple of years from now. And I think that We as a company will stick to doing everything that we're doing because we want to make sure that we're providing great content for folks. They can learn about us for when they're in a good, comfortable position, that they're going to be in a place to say, cool, I want to be an owner. And I think frankly, if the recession happens, once someone says, yep, we're in a recession, people are like, cool. Like I understand what's happening now. I think everything's going to be okay. And I'm still investing in the hobby that I love. It's kind of the same thing that happened with COVID.  is that when folks are like, COVID's a real thing, everyone like work from home, hunker down, people are like, cool. I kind of understand what's going on. I'm working from home. I've got a lot of time in the internet and I'm now going to invest in a hobby. Three hobbies. Three hobbies, multiple hobbies, lots of hobbies. And I think that once we have an understanding of how things are and once it's kind of defined, people are kind of relaxed and be okay with things. And it's no matter what, like I'll say that folks should, without a doubt, like not overextend like that's that's one of those things that that's just a personal like do like if it's gonna hurt you to buy a watch don't buy that watch. |
|Jason Heaton|It's a good point. Have you have you changed the sales model? I remember early on you did very small runs and it was like pre it was a pre-order and then you it's delivered shortly after and then that was it no more. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah. Are you still doing that model? We kind of do a mix of everything now. We do we have you know, our open serials, which like the Humboldt GMT, the Olmstead, which are theoretically, unless they're backordered, always available. They will be around. They're serialized, but it's not like a limited number. And then we have limited production, like for our mat series, where we can only make so many of them. So we want to make more, but we can only make so many. And so it's, you know, we'll limit those numbers, but there'll be more. And then we do still have our limited editions, which are pieces that we only make 10 of, 100 of, something smaller where it will sell out and we'll be done and we'll never make that watch in the same way again. That's something that people always ask, just make more like the Sanford. People are like, make more. And I'm like. Understandable. Right? Well. Pretty sweet watch. Thank you. But we can't and we won't. Maybe we'll use the word Sanford again. Maybe we'll do a dual crown again. But we're not going to make that Sanford in that same way ever again. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah.  I suppose it's kind of disrespectful to the people that bought the first one that felt they were getting this limited, you know, whatever. |
|Chase Fancher|Absolutely. And when I explained it to folks like that, I'm like, if you bought one of a hundred and then all of a sudden the next day, I'm like, cool, we just made another hundred. Yeah. You'd be a little pissed. Yeah. Yeah. And there's no way we can let people down like that. |
|James|Oh, that's a great chat, Chase. How would you like people to find the brand? Go right to the website, the Instagram, do it all. |
|Chase Fancher|The website, okanosker.com, Instagram, okanosker.  I'm It's just so much fun. |
|James|We'll certainly find that in the show notes. And, dude, thanks so much for taking some time for round three. Absolutely. Thanks for having me. I'm looking forward to four. Let's not wait a hundred and some odd episodes. |
|Chase Fancher|Yeah, let's do four, five and six. |
|James|Let's do them. We'll just report them all here. We'll leech them out over time. |
|Chase Fancher|We got a bottle of bourbon. I think we'll be good. Cool. |
|Jason Heaton|Thanks, guys. I appreciate it. Thanks, Chase. All right. There we have it. That was our third TGN chat with Chase Fancher of Oak and Oscar. Chase, thanks again for for agreeing to come on and talk with us on TGN. You know, best of luck. Not that you need it. You're doing such a great job. Had a great booth at Windup. That was really fun to see them spinning up those brass bezels and dials and kind of demonstrating to people. And saw a lot of people with Okinawa watches on it at our table there at Windup. That was really fun. And hey, you know, fellow Land Rover guy, curious to see where you land with the Subaru choices. For sure. Good luck with that too.  And, uh, yeah, we hope everybody liked that and we'll have another, uh, another couple of chats, uh, next week from windup. |
|James|Yeah. Next week has, uh, at least within our zone, uh, an illustrious guest and actually a pair, but certainly, um, certainly someone who speaks directly to our sort of, uh, origin story. So I'm excited for that one as well. But Jason, how about some final notes? |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah, we should, uh, we should close this one out here. I've got one that, uh, actually Ghoshani pointed me towards, uh, just a couple of days ago. This was, uh, this is actually, A very interesting article from the New Yorker magazine and it's an old article actually. It's one that they have kind of republished on their website from May 6th, 1950. Written by Lillian Ross and the story is called How Do You Like It Now, Gentlemen? The Moods of Ernest Hemingway. And I guess what really struck me about this is I studied Hemingway, I've read a lot of Hemingway.  Kind of. He's a fascinating figure. If you ever get a chance to watch the PBS Ken Burns documentary about him, it's really, really quite good. Obviously an icon, a giant of literature. But, you know, he was a quirky guy. He had very specific tastes. Arguably, as he got older, he got more eccentric, more opinionated. And this article by Lillian Ross was about a trip that Hemingway makes to New York City back in 1950.  And she meets him at the airport and then spends a couple of days with him and his wife in and around Manhattan as he's in his hotel and shopping and meeting with his publisher. And it's just interesting, you know, even if you have a passing interest in Hemingway to kind of get a glimpse into a live interaction with him at the time while he was still alive, instead of this kind of retrospective look at this man, but to like see him as a, as a, you know, contemporary at the time.  Um, it's really an interesting piece. It's quite long. Uh, the New Yorker, I think, you know, usually in many cases you have to subscribe to get their content. This was actually a, I don't subscribe and it was free and I was able to read it. So, uh, hopefully that'll be the case for all of you. Yeah. Same here. And it takes some time to read. So, you know, kind of put it in your, uh, in your pocket app or wherever you like to save a reading list stuff and, and give it a go when you have some time. Um, yeah, he, he was, he was definitely an individual, uh, in, in, you know, both, I guess the best and the worst way.  And, uh, I'd like to think that, that, you know, if you were alive today or if TGN was around back in 1950, he might've been on a TGN chat with us. Probably would've had a lot of interesting stuff to say. Yeah. And I could see him wearing a TGN kerchief too. |
|James|I think so. That might be, that might be a little, a little, a little forward for us, but I think so. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. True. Yeah. But, uh, yeah, check it out. It's a, it's a good story. I like reading old stuff that was written at the time. It's like, it gives you a real kind of glimpse into, Well, not only Hemingway at the time, but New York City at the time. Really interesting, so. |
|James|I'm excited. Yeah. That's a cool one. We put this episode together kind of in short term, so I didn't go through and read it. Yeah. And I just saw the title and I was like, well, I'm going to be, we'll go into this one fresh. Yeah. That looks cool. I love the illustration with his, the sort of sketch. Yeah. Yeah. His portrait and that kind of thing. So. Yeah. Very good and something I will absolutely be reading in an airport sometime soon.  All right. |
|Jason Heaton|What have you got? |
|James|I've got one that's just a heads up on. You know, a lot of you know that I'm a huge Lego Speed Champions fan, and I think they've made the most TGN Speed Champions thing they could, maybe short of a Jeep or a Land Rover. They're not responding to my emails. I'm just joking. I have not sent them an email. But this is the new 007 Aston Martin DB5 kit, which will come out August 1st.  And I'm obsessed. I cannot wait to build this. I'm trying to decide how many to buy. Obviously I have to buy one for Jason. Wow. Maybe Ghoshani needs one too, right? Both of my girls probably need one so we can all build it together. They're $30 Canadian, which I guess would be, I bet you they're 20 bucks US. I don't know, 20, 22 bucks, something like that. And it's a little silver DB5 with the hood scoop and the rest of it, a bunch of swappable plates. Nice.  So fun. And then a little tiny, uh, James Bond minifig, which I feel like isn't something they do very commonly. And that alone in my world is worth 30 bucks just for the shelf above where I'm recording this right now. I I'm, I'm on board. I can't tell you how I'll try and buy as literally as many as I can, because this is going to be a killer gift for Christmas as well. And I would, the only reason I bring it up early, and even if this means I, I ended up not being able to get it because there's a spike in popularity.  um, they won't make that many. So this drops August 1st. I will be traveling when it comes out. So I have no clue if I'll all thread that needle, but I'll do my best. But if I can get my hands on, you know, one to seven of these, I certainly will. This is so cool. I love this. I cannot wait to have this on my desk. It'll make me smile every time I sit down. It's going to make the best gift Yeah. Uh, I promise I'd, I'd swear on TGN that like Lego has no clue that I like these. This is not an ad. I know it sounds too excited, but, uh, I love that they're doing this. I love that it's at a price point. That's the kind of like buy what you can put them on a shelf, give them to everyone. You know, uh, if you've got any kids in your life, super fun way to introduce them to bond in a way that really doesn't require them to watch the movie if they're too young. Right. And yeah, I'm, I'm pumped for this. So we'll, we'll see how many I can get. |
|Jason Heaton| I love that the minifigure it says plus a no time to die James Bond minifigure. So I was I was kind of zooming in on the Bond figure and it's distinctly more Daniel Craig than Sean Connery, which now makes sense. So, yeah, so cool. |
|James|Yeah. You know, there's also no watch on his wrist. Oh, yeah. Like like you could paint one on. I feel like Omega's missing a chance here for a little bit of cross promotion. Right. Right. Even just like a little it could just be like a silvery gray band.  Yeah, true. And we could just know it's an Omega. Yeah. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I think my, my burgeoning Lego and Lego adjacent collection here, I'm going to have to put up a shelf somewhere in my office and just start lining these things up. It's getting a little, getting a little silly. You sent me that SR 71 model that I haven't quite put together, but it's in a bag, right? Sitting right in front of me that I should just spend a couple of hours. |
|James|And to be fair, that's not really Lego. Yeah. That's some sort of Chinese knockoff Lego, but also I'm going to, you know, If I see SR-71, I click buy. Yeah. I literally, I physically can't afford it. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. I mean, that's deep nerd, right? I mean, that's, I love it. |
|James|It's so mine. I'll share a photo at some point, but my, that version of the SR-71s maybe that's maybe 14 inches long, something like that. And it sits on top of my NAD receiver in my living room. Good idea. Which is kind of like perfect for me just below where the projector shows the whatever we're watching. Yeah. These days, pretty much just formula one. I barely turned that thing on, but Yeah, I dig this so much. I know it's a toy and it's not normally the stuff that we talk about, but I feel like I've been covering Speed Champions for a few years now. Yeah, this is a good one. And I love it so much. Might be the best one for me. Yeah, that's great. I love that it's something that's $30 instead of $300. I mean, like Lego collectors are insane. Yeah. I love it for their insanity, but they're insane. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. Wow. Fun show. |
|James|Really, really fun. Yeah, absolutely. I hope people dig the chat with Chase and the Legos and the New Yorker article in the chat at the top, you know, maybe maybe we went too long on some of it. But I just I've had such a long week that to sit down and chit chat and especially after meeting everybody in Chicago, I feel so energized about TGN. |
|Jason Heaton|Yeah. Yeah, I do, too. Yeah. So much positive energy. |
|James|Yeah. Yeah. And as always, a huge thank you, not not just for everyone who's listening, but everyone who comments, who hits the sub stack, who DMs on Instagram, who sends us an email, the rest of it. If you want to subscribe to the show notes, get into the comments for each episode or consider supporting the show directly. You can grab a new TGN signed NATO, or by the time you're hearing this, the new supporter bundle, please visit TheGreyNATO.com and it should be pretty straightforward where to go. Music throughout is Siesta by Jazzar via the free music archive. |
|Jason Heaton|And we leave you with this quote from Joseph Addison, who said, true happiness arises in the first place from the enjoyment of oneself. And in the next, from the friendship and conversation of a few select companions. |
